DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING AND STUDY SESSION
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 22, 2015
1.
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 22, 2015 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call: Kelly Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Kenneth Gass, Camille Hackler,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen
Audience:
No Audience Presented
Superintendent's Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
 The Northwest Educational Service District 189 (NWESD) has a vacant seat on
its Board of Directors. Recommendations for nominees should be forwarded to
NWESD Superintendent Jerry Jenkins.
 Last week a district team participated in site visits to study food programs at
school districts in Berkeley, Oakland, and Boulder. This was a preliminary step in
the visioning process for a new central kitchen and future food services program.
Whatcom Community Foundation is helping to support this preliminary research
and planning through grants. A Food Services Advisory Group has been launched
in connection with this effort. Dr. Baker will present an in-depth report on this
project at a future board meeting.
 As part of the visioning process for the new Sehome High School, district leaders
will engage with students, families, staff, and the community to gather feedback
on their hopes and dreams for the new high school. An Educational
Specifications/Design Advisory Committee will begin meeting in mid-November
to review the feedback and to develop educational specifications for the new
building. The projected completion date for the project is fall of 2019.
CONSENT ITEMS: Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve
the following consent agenda items. Vote was unanimous.
Approval of Minutes of Oct. 8, 2015 Special Meeting/Public Hearing and Oct. 8
Regular Meeting – Minutes approved as submitted.
Resolution 28-15 Replacement Through New Construction in Lieu of Modernization
- Resolution adopted as submitted.
Bellingham Technical College Running Start Program Agreement (#1516-025) –
Agreement approved as submitted.
Puget Sound ESD Interdistrict Agreement (#1516-027) – Agreement approved as
submitted.

DRAFT Meeting Minutes
Oct. 22, 2015
page 2 of 4

2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16

3.
3. 1

3.1

Whatcom Community College Lakeside Cooperative Preschool Inter-Agency
Agreement (#1516-030) – Agreement approved as submitted.
Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss Agreement
(#1516-041) - Agreement approved as submitted.
Online Tutoring LLC Contract for Supplemental Educational Services (#1516-059)
Contract approved as submitted.
Above and Beyond Learning Contract for Supplemental Educational Services
(#1516-060) - Contract approved as submitted.
Academic Link Outreach Contract for Supplemental Educational Services (#1516061) - Contract approved as submitted.
Advance Tutoring Services Contract for Supplemental Educational Services (#1516062) - Contract approved as submitted.
One on One Learning Contract for Supplemental Educational Services (#1516-063)
- Contract approved as submitted.
Professional Tutors of America, Inc. Contract for Supplemental Educational
Services (#1516-064) - Contract approved as submitted.
Sylvan Learning Center #219 Contract for Supplemental Educational Services
(#1516-065) - Contract approved as submitted.
Tutorial Services Contract for Supplemental Educational Services (#1516-066) Contract approved as submitted.
Whatcom Community Foundation Grant Agreements – Agreements approved as
submitted.
Personnel Recommendations w/ Attachment Item G – Personnel Recommendations
approved as submitted.
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Board Response to Monitoring, EL-1 Expectations of Superintendent:
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, confirming
the Superintendent is in compliance with EL-1, and further, to approve the compilation of
responses as discussed. It was agreed that no changes are needed to the EL-1 policy.
Board Response to Monitoring, EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board.
Following discussion, Dr. Gass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, confirming
the Superintendent is in compliance with EL-5 and further, to approve the compilation of
responses as discussed. It was agreed that no changes are needed to the EL-5 policy.
The board then agreed to modify the agenda so that Item 4 – Study Session – would
occur following all other regular meeting official business.

4.
4. 1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports – none

DRAFT Meeting Minutes
Oct. 22, 2015
page 3 of 4

5.

NEW BUSINESS A Board Linkage session with primary care providers of school-age children and teens is
scheduled for 7-8:15 a.m. on Wednesday, December 9, at Shuksan Middle School.

6.
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Dr. Gass assessed the meeting with an overall rating of 4 (good)
At 6:38 p.m., the board recessed for ten minutes.

7.

STUDY SESSION – EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONS
LEVIES
Dr. Baker provided background information regarding the research that has been
underway in consideration of a 1:1 technology model, which, if implemented, would
result in a take-home device, including classroom use, for middle and high school
students, and classroom-based devices for students in grades 3-5. He provided an
overview of the work of the Student Technology Think Tank. Panel members for this
study session included:
 Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland and Executive Director, Educational
Technology, Kurt Gazow
 Sehome High School Student Eric Newcomer
 Bellingham High School Teacher Paul Clement
 High School Principal James Everett
 Technology Teacher on Special Assignment Brian Pahl
 Samamish High School Curriculum Director Bill Palmer
The panel members and the board participated in an in-depth discussion of the work of
the Think Tank, which formed the basis of its recommendations to Dr. Baker. These
recommendations indicated unanimous support for a 1:1 initiative. Additionally, Dr.
Palmer presented an overview of Samamish High School’s experience with 1:1
technology.
Following the panel discussion, the board recessed briefly. When the study session
resumed, Dr. Baker reviewed the levy timeline, the projects funded by the current
technology levy, and how various scenarios would impact the tax rate.
Dr. Baker said he will continue to gather input from students, staff, families, and the
community before making a final determination regarding the Think Tank’s
recommendations and finalizing language for resolutions relating to the proposed
replacement levies. These resolutions will be submitted to the board as part of the
November 16 consent agenda.

7.2

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:37 p.m.

DRAFT Meeting Minutes
Oct. 22, 2015
page 4 of 4

____________________________________
Kelly Bashaw, School Board President

Attest:

____________________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ________________

