DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
January 15, 2015
1.
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
Jan. 15, 2015 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(Board President), Doug Benjamin, Ken Gass, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience
No audience presented.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report – Dr. Baker updated the board on the
following:
 Discuss Feb. 12 Study Session on Restorative Practices: Assistant
Superintendent Steve Clarke and Department of Teaching and Learning Director
Steve Morse are the administrative leads for the study session. District-wide, the
number of expulsions and suspensions has declined as principals and staff
members embrace the concept of Restorative Practices. Board members shared
with Mr. Clarke and Mr. Morse what topics they would like addressed during the
study session.
 2015-16 Budget: Governor Inslee has released his proposal for the state budget.
Work has started within the district, and over the next few months, we will engage
staff, families, and the community in the process so that the proposed district
budget can be presented to the board in June. Dr. Baker briefly reviewed
emerging priorities.
 Facilities: Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan updated the board on the Lowell
Elementary School construction project and the planning process for the Parkview
Elementary School project.
 Promise K: Close to 70 students are registered for this early-entrance
kindergarten program, which will begin in early February.
 GRADS (Graduation, Reality and Dual-Role Skills): This free program for
pregnant and parenting students, currently housed at Squalicum High School, is
expanding to Sehome High School. This is the only GRADS program north of
Everett, and the need is critical.

Draft - Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Jan. 15, 2015
Page 2 of 5

1.5

Recognition and Presentations: After reading a proclamation from Governor Inslee
regarding School Board Recognition Month, Dr. Baker thanked the board members for
their dedication and hard work on behalf of our district.

2.

CONSENT ITEMS
The following items were discussed prior to the vote for approval of the consent agenda:


Item 2.5: Resolution 2-15, Acceptance of Birchwood Elementary School: In
response to Ms. Hackler’s request that the minutes reflect the budgeted amount of
the project and actual cost, Dr. Baker provided the following numbers:
 Amount budgeted: $14,608,303
 Actual cost: $14,387,683
Dr. Baker said this differential is just one example of the exemplary work
performed by Mr. Cowan and his team on this project.



Item 2.10: Adoption of Policy 1310: Dr. Gass requested the following
revisions: {Third paragraph, last sentence, delete wording:} This does not
preclude the superintendent from deciding in some cases to bring policies and
procedures to the board for review and action. because of the board’s connection
role in some of this work and {Fourth paragraph, first sentence, add wording:}
Applicable proposed new policies and proposed changes in existing policies, as
defined above in 1-7 and by federal/state law, will be presented in writing for
reading and discussion to the board. as part of the consent agenda.
Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler, to accept Policy 1310 with
revisions proposed by Dr. Gass. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Hackler made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to approve the following
consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11

Approval of Minutes: Dec. 11, 2014 Regular School Board Meeting with Study
Session: Action on minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments, Dec. 2014: Action on investments as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, Dec., 2014: Action on expenditures and
payroll as submitted.
Resolution 1-15, Cancelation of Stale-Dated Checks: Action on Resolution 1-15 as
submitted.
Resolution 2-15, Acceptance of Birchwood Elementary School: Action on Resolution
2-15 as submitted.
Resolution 3-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund: Action on Resolution 3-15 as submitted.
Interdistrict Cooperative Agreement - Northwest Career & Technical Academy:
Action on agreement as submitted.
Write-off Uncollectible Accounts: Action on recommendation as submitted.
EL-3 Monitoring Report: Review of Monitoring Report as submitted.
Adoption of Policy 1310: Adoption of Policy 1310 with revisions referred to above.
Staff Travel: Action on staff travel as submitted:

Draft - Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Jan. 15, 2015
Page 3 of 5








2.12

Student Trips: Action on Student Trips as submitted:



2.13
2.14

Sehome High School Robotics Team to participate in the 2015 First Robotics Challenge at Auburn
Mountainview High School, February 27-28, 2015. Expenses for this trip will be paid by student
fundraising.
Squalicum High School band students to participate in the Festival of Gold in Los Angeles, California,
April 17-22, 2015. Expenses for this trip will be paid for from Booster support, family support and
fundraising.

Personnel Recommendations: Action on Personnel Recommendations as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (11): Action on personal services contracts as submitted:


3.
3.1

Sehome staff to attend the National Conference for the Education of Ceramic Art in Providence, Rhode
Island, March 25-28, 2015. Expenses will be paid from Individual Staff Development (ISD) funds.
District staff to attend the Connected Math Project (CMP) Users Conference at Michigan State
University, February 20-21, 2015. Expenses will be paid from math curriculum implementation funds.
Alderwood staff to attend the International Baccalaureate Category 2 and 3 Workshop in Vancouver,
BC, January 30-February 2, 2015. Expenses for this travel will be covered by Title I funds.
Sehome staff to do a science presentation to Burnaby School District staff in Burnaby, BC, February 13
and February 20, 2015. Expenses will be paid by the Burnaby School District.
District staff to attend the Teacher Institute Conference at High Tech High School in San Diego,
California, January 21-23, 2015. Expenses will be paid from professional development funds and
Department of Teaching and Learning funds.
District administrator to attend meetings of the Urban Superintendents Program (USP) in Washington,
DC, January 28-31, 2015 and in Cambridge, MA, April 23-25, 2015. Expenses will be paid from
administrative professional development funds.
District administrator to attend Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) for Ed.L.D. Capstone
Defense, April 12-13, 2015. Expenses will be reimbursed by HGSE.

Dept. of Teaching & Learning:
o Clark, Sheila – Professional coaching for teachers to support students that display dyslexic
indicators; 2014-15 school year
o Dodson-Glenn, Laurel – Provide tutoring services for private school students on Individual
Service Plans in the Bellingham School District boundaries; 2014-15 school year
o Grambo, Gillian – Home & Hospital Instruction Tutoring for Homebound students; December,
2014 – June, 2015
o Lewis, Richard – Home and Hospital Instruction Tutor; 2014-15 school year
o McGinnes, Katherine – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 2nd grade teachers for Bridges in
Mathematics implementation; December 12, 2014 only
o McGrath, Paula – Promise Kindergarten Consultant; January 1, 2015 – June 30, 2015
o O’Donnell, Rosalyn – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 5th grade teachers for Bridges in
Mathematics implementation; December 12, 2014 only
o O’Donnell, Rosalyn – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 5th grade teachers for Bridges in
Mathematics Implementation; December 12, 2014 only.
o Prigodich, Karen – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 1st grade teachers for Bridges in
Mathematics implementation; December 12, 2014 only.
o Schatz, Tracy – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 4th grade teachers for Bridges in
Mathematics implementation; December 12, 2014 only
o Smith, Laura – PTA Enrichment Class after School Choir at Geneva– September 15, 2014 – June
17, 2015 (Mondays, Grade K-2)
o Smith, Laura – PTA Enrichment Class after School Choir at Geneva – September 15, 2014 –
June 17, 2015 (Wednesdays)

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-7, Budget Planning and
Execution: Following discussion, Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Ms. Hackler,
to accept the monitoring report with the following conclusions and comments.
Unanimous affirmative vote.

Draft - Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Jan. 15, 2015
Page 4 of 5

3.2

4.
4.1

5.
5.1
5.2
5.3

1. The Board finds that the Superintendent is in compliance.
2. With respect to the report reviewed, the Superintendent is slightly above expectations.
3. Commendable developments since the last report:
a. The Annual Financial Report is comprehensive, clear and very instructive.
b. The report shared many ways in which the Superintendent has gone beyond the
basic requirements of EL-7. The Superintendent has always kept the Board
informed of anything that could affect the budget.
c. The readability of the board budgets and the data presentation have dramatically
improved over the past several years. It is much easier to focus on those items of
interest and not get bogged down in minutia.
4. Areas for additional improvement: n/a
5. Additional comments: n/a
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (part 1), Student
Competence: Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Dr.
Gass, to accept the monitoring report with the following conclusions and comments.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent is making reasonable progress towards
achieving the goals established in the policy.
2. With respect to the report reviewed, the Superintendent is exceeding expectations.
3. Commendable developments since the last report:
a. Personalization of this report by telling the story of three of our students; this
provided unique and useful data.
b. This report shows good effort to better identify comparable data sources and to
add more detailed school and student specific data to highlight progress.
c. Continued progress on selection of comparison districts, especially those that
challenge us.
d. Looking at data on the performance of ELL students who have left the program
was helpful and showed our success with these students.
e. This is by far the best monitoring report we have received for Ends 2.1. Drilling
down to tell the story behind the ELL outcomes is great thinking. All the charts on
student growth versus achievement and the focus on Sunnyland Elementary
School to tell the story are interesting and helpful.
4. Areas for additional improvement: n/a
5. Additional comments: n/a
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection: Following discussion, Ms. Hackler made a
motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to accept the following revision. Unanimous affirmative
vote.
Item 2 b. – Maintain an appropriate rolling five-year plan for managing, developing, and
improving facilities.
SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
The board agreed to the following committee assignments for 2015:
County and City Council Liaisons: Ms. Hackler and Dr. Smith
Superintendent Review: Ms. Bashaw and Dr. Smith
Board Manual: Mr. Benjamin and Dr. Gass

Draft - Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Jan. 15, 2015
Page 5 of 5

5.4
5.5

Policy Governance Enhancements: Ms. Bashaw and Dr. Smith
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Ex Officio Board Member (attends quarterly
meetings: Dr. Gass

6.
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
Meeting of Whatcom County Legislative Committee Representatives: Ms. Hackler
updated the board on a plan for representatives meet in the near future; date and location
not yet decided.
Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Discussion regarding
Native American studies: Tabled until next meeting.
Advocacy and the Role of Board: Mr. Benjamin asked if the board should consider the
role of advocacy as a topic of discussion at a future retreat. In response, Dr. Smith said
one way the board advocates for various groups is through linkages and study sessions.
He added that the Board Corner section of Inside Schools magazine might serve as
another platform.

6.2
6.3

7.
7.1
7.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Smith assessed the meeting with an overall rating of
5 (commendable)
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:45 p.m.

_______________________________
Kelly Bashaw, School Board President

Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ______________

