DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING AND EXECUTIVE SESSION
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 4, 2015
1.
1.1
1.2

1.3

2.

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
June 4, 2015 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
President Kelly Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present; Directors Doug
Benjamin, Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Sheri
O’Day. Director Ken Gass was excused.
Audience
 Ashley Delataur – parent at Columbia presented about the importance of not moving
a teacher from Columbia due to enrollment.
CONSENT ITEMS
Doug Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Camille Diaz-Hackler to approve the
following consent agenda items. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes: May 7, 2015 Regular School Board Meeting: Action on
minutes as submitted
Approval of Minutes of May 19, 2015 Special School Board Meeting: Action on
minutes as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, May, 2015: Action on expenditures and payroll
as submitted.
Action on Investments: Action on investments as submitted.
Action on Resolution 12-15, Intent to Construct, Happy Valley Elementary School:
Action on Resolution 2-15 as submitted.
Action on Resolution 13-15, Award of Bid, Happy Valley Elementary School: Action
on Resolution 3-15 as submitted.
Action on Resolution 14-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects
Fund to the General Fund: Action on Resolution 14-15 as submitted.
Action on Bid, Dairy Products: Action on recommendation as submitted.
Action on Bid, Parkview Elementary School Improvements: Action on
recommendation as submitted.
Action on Constructability Review Report, Happy Valley Elementary School: Action
on recommendation as submitted.
Approval of Student Fines and Fees for the 2015-2016 School Year: Action on
recommendation as submitted.

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2015
Page 2 of 4

2.12
2.13

2.14
2.15
2.16

Action on Interlocal Agreement, Sedro–Woolley School District: Action on
recommendation as submitted.
Approval of Intergovernmental Cooperative Purchasing Agreements for Dairy
Products: Action on recommendation to enter into agreements for dairy products with
Blaine and Mt. Baker school districts as submitted.
EL-2, Organizational Continuity Monitoring Report: Review of Monitoring Report as
submitted.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations: Action on Personnel Recommendations as
submitted.
Action on Personal Services Contracts (6): Action on personal services contracts as
submitted.
Steve Smith made a motion, seconded by Camille Diaz-Hackler, to change the agenda
and move the Superintendent’s report earlier in the meeting.

3.
3.1

SUPERINTENDENT’S ANNOUNCEMENTS AND REPORT
Dr. Baker updated the board on the following:
 Budget – The Legislature was called into a second special session and we are
awaiting an official budget.
 Communications Awards – Tanya Rowe, Executive Director of Communications
and Community Relations, addressed the board regarding awards that were recently
received by the Bellingham School District:
o Highest in category: website blog (Dr. Baker’s blog).
o Awards of merit for school calendar, graduation and course planning guide,
Priorities for Progress, twitter feed.
o Honorable mention for Bellingham Families advertisements.
o Award of merit for budget presentation.
o Videos: Promise Awards, Promise Kindergarten, Walking in the Shoes.
A communications panel from across the state evaluates and gives feedback, similar
to a report card.
 TPEP – Dr. Baker introduced Amy Carder, Director of Department of Teaching and
Learning, who along with Michelle Kuss-Cybula and Dr. Mike Copland, have done
exceptional work with regard to the growth and development of our staff. Amy
Carder addressed the board with an overview of the Teacher Principal Evaluation
Process (TPEP).
 Facilities Updates – Dr. Baker introduced Byron Gerard, Options High School
principal, who gave the board an update on the facility work being planned for
Options. The New Options High School Educational Specifications/Design Advisory
Committee, which consists of 30 members, has been meeting since February to
develop the vision for the new facility. The facility will be 48,500 square feet and will
house several different programs to serve students in different ways (Options High
School, vocational programs, GRADS program, ELL Newcomers Center, BTC ReEngagement partnership, etc.). Construction will start in June of 2016 and be
completed in August of 2017. The committee is working on identifying priorities and
the best use of space. Questions from the board included: Will the parking on

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2015
Page 3 of 4



4.
4.1

4.2

5.
5.1.
5.2
5.3

Franklin Street go away? Will there be bicycle parking? Will some of the students
who attend NWCTA attend here rather than travelling to Skagit County? A letter will
go out to neighbors soon, inviting them to a meeting to update them on the
committee’s progress. Ron Cowan, Executive Director, Capital Projects and School
Facilities, then updated the board on other facilities projects:
 The Lowell addition and renovation is underway – 9,500 square foot addition,
which is approximately 60% complete. Construction will be completed in
August, and it is hoped the board will be able to visit the site together in July.
 Construction for the 8,300 square foot Parkview addition, which includes a
new cafeteria, music room/stage, new student restrooms and a covered area,
will begin in June 2015 and finish in August 2016.
 Construction of a new 53,500 square foot Happy Valley Elementary will
begin in June 2015 and be completed in fall 2016 (the new school will open
for the first day of school in August 2016).
Accreditation Process – Steve Clarke updated the board on the recent accreditation
process. In the past, each high school individually completes the accreditation process
every 6 years. Historically, it has been a lot of work and has not been a very
meaningful process. We proposed last year to complete a district accreditation
process since our strategic plan, The Bellingham Promise, is alive and in action in all
four of our high schools. The proposal was approved, and the high school team has
worked on the process for the entire school year. The accreditation team was here for
two days in April, and our team of staff, students and parents showed how The
Bellingham Promise is carried out in our high schools. In the debrief at the end of the
process, the accreditation team was very moved. Steve and the high schools
principals traveled to Renton in May and presented to the state board.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-4, Staff Treatment,
Compensation and Evaluation:
The board members discussed the comments, conclusions and suggested revisions on the
summary worksheet for EL-4. Mr. Smith then made a motion, seconded by Ms. DiazHackler, to prepare a final Monitoring Response Document (Attachment 1) based on this
discussion. Motion carried unanimously.
Board Response to Monitoring, Monitoring Report EL-6, Academic Standards and
Practices:
The board members discussed the comments, conclusions and suggested revisions on the
summary worksheet for EL-6. Mr. Smith then made a motion, seconded by Ms. DiazHackler, to prepare a final Monitoring Response Document (Attachment 2) based on this
discussion. Motion carried unanimously.
SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County and City Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler – none
Superintendent Review: Steve Smith and Ken Gass – none
Board Manual: Ken Gass and Steve Smith – none

Draft Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2015
Page 4 of 4

5.4
5.5
5.6

Policy Government Enhancements: Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw – none
Board Transparency/Community Connections: Kelly Bashaw – none
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Ex-Officio Board Member: Ken Gass – none

6.

NEW BUSINESS
No new business.

7.
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Smith assessed the meeting with an overall rating
of 5 (commendable).

8.
8.1

EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 7:25 p.m., the board entered executive session to review the performance of a public
employee (RCW 42.30.110(1)(g) and professional negotiations (RCW 42.30.140).

9.
9.1

RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
At 8:15 p.m., the board reconvened to open session.

10.
10.1

CLOSING ITEMS
The regular meeting adjourned at 8:18 p.m.

Kelly Bashaw
School Board President

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved:

