DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 7, 2015

1.
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4.

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
May 7, 2015 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:16 p.m.
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Doug Benjamin, Kenneth Gass, Camille
Hackler, Steve Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Lindsay Ahrens.
Audience
 Nay-Nay and Tarra Hollins – 3rd grade student at Northern Heights and her
mother presented about nurse presence on school campuses and the use of a
Parent Designated Adult (PDA).
 David Cunningham, Jean Richardson, Eric Scott, and Curt Manos – McLeod
Road residents who have concerns about the school bus traffic in their
neighborhood.
Superintendent’s announcements and report - Dr. Baker updated the board on the
following:
 Dr. Simone Sangster, Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Operations –
official welcome and introduction to the board.
 Budget – The Legislature is in special session and we are awaiting an official
budget.
 Ends 1, 2, and 3 – The concluding report is impending. Mike Copeland, Deputy
Superintendent, addressed the board to request feedback from the board members
about a summary report that will be meaningful and relevant. Options include: 1)
a lot of written evidence that could be turned into a robust written report; 2) build
a shorter report that is a summary narrative within each outcome; 3) use the
Promise web page as a focus for the final report. Regardless of format, evidence is
more robust in some outcome areas than in others but the final report should help
to focus where to head next year. One challenge continues to be how to measure
some of the data that is harder to quantify. Board member suggestions: How are
the weaknesses directing future action? What are ways the Department of
Teaching and Learning is working to quantify the areas that are harder to
measure? What accounts for the positive outcomes?

Draft Meeting Minutes
May 7, 2015
Page 2 of 3

2.

2.14

CONSENT ITEMS
Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion, seconded by Mr. Smith, that Approvals of
Expenditures, item 2.5, be separated from the other consent items and recused herself
from that vote. The motion carried unanimously. Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded
by Dr. Gass, to approve the following consent agenda with the exception of 2.5. The
motion carried unanimously. Steve Smith made a motion, seconded by Dr. Gass, to
approve consent agenda 2.5. The motion carried unanimously with Ms. Diaz Hackler
abstaining.
Approval of Minutes of the April 2, 2015 special meeting – Action on minutes as
submitted.
Approval of Minutes of April 16, 2015 regular meeting – Action on minutes as
submitted.
Approval of Minutes of April 23, 2015 community linkage meeting – Action on
minutes as submitted.
Approval of Investments, April 2015 – Action on Investments as submitted.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, April 2015 – Action on Expenditures and
Payrolls as submitted.
Revise Student Activities Pay Schedule – Action on item as submitted.
Resolution 10-15, Temporary Waiver from High School Graduation Requirements –
Action on resolution as submitted.
Resolution 11-15, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund – Action on resolution as submitted.
Whatcom Detention Center Agreement – Action on agreement as submitted.
Authorize the Superintendent to Execute Cordata Trail Easement Modification –
Action on item as submitted.
EL-6, Academic Standards and Practices – Review of Monitoring Report as submitted.
EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation, and Evaluation – Review of Monitoring
Report as submitted.
Personal Services Contracts (3) – Action on contracts as submitted:
 Dept. of Teaching and Learning:
o Christina, Robert – Data Preparation for Program Evaluation; April 1 – August
30, 2015
o McGinnis, Katherine – Provide ½ day Prof. Development for 2nd grade teachers
for Bridges in Mathematics Implementation and ½ day planning with Charisse
Berner and Janie Overman on May 1, 2015
o McGrath, Paula – Promise Kindergarten Consultant, increase in the amount of
hours by 30 from the original Personal Services Contract of 150 hours; January 1
– June 30, 2015.
Personnel Recommendations – Action on report as submitted.

3.
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4

SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE REPORTS
County and City Liaisons: Kelly Bashaw and Camille Hackler – none
Superintendent Review: Steve Smith and Ken Gass – none
Board Manual: Ken Gass and Steve Smith – none
Policy Governance Enhancements: Steve Smith and Kelly Bashaw – none

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13

Draft Meeting Minutes
May 7, 2015
Page 3 of 3

3.5
3.6

Board Transparency/Community Connections: Kelly Bashaw – none
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Ex-Officio Board Member – Ken Gass – none

4.

NEW BUSINESS
No new business

5.

STUDY SESSION
Presenters included: Steve Morse, Director of Teaching and Learning, Student and Health
Services; Kristi Dominguez, Director of Early Childhood; Annie Racicot, Counselor;
Isabel Meaker, Special Assistant to Superintendent for Family Engagement; Katie
Brown, ELL Specialist; Tanya Rojas, Family Liaison.
Members of this team presented about family engagement in Bellingham Public Schools
with primary emphasis on: early childhood education and engagement with families
before their children formally enter the public school system and during the early years of
their schooling; and English Language Learners and the variety of ways the schools are
reaching families who do not speak English.
One Family Resource Center (FRC) operates at Carl Cozier Elementary and a second will
soon be established at Shuksan Middle School. The FRC serves as a conduit to get
families connected to counselors and other resources both in the district and in the
community.

6.
6.1
6.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Dr. Gass assessed the meeting with an overall rating of 5
(commendable).
Adjournment:
The meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

____________________________
Kelly Bashaw
School Board President

Attest:

_____________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

