Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Special Meeting, 12:00 p.m.
The Board of Directors will meeting in special session at 12:00 p.m. in Room 203 of the District Office,
1306 Dupont St., Bellingham. The purpose of the meeting is to review the personnel recommendations
for certificated and administrative staff for employment for the 2015-2016 school year. This is not a
regular School Board meeting and will not include public comment time.

1. Opening Items
Subject :

1.1 Meeting Date and Location

Meeting :

May 19, 2015 - Special Meeting, 12:00 p.
m.

Type :

Information

Public Content
May 19, 2015 - 12:00 p.m.; District Office; 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham WA 98225.

1. Opening Items
Subject :

1.2 Roll Call

Meeting :

May 19, 2015 - Special Meeting, 12:00 p.
m.

Type :

2. Consent Items
Subject :

2.1 Approval of Certificated and Administrative
Personnel Recommendations for the 2015-2016 School
Year

Meeting :

May 19, 2015 - Special Meeting, 12:00 p.m.

Type :

Action (Consent)

Recommended Action :

Staff will submit the 2015-2016 certificated and
administrative personnel recommendations on Monday,
May 18, 2015 for the Board's review and consideration.

Consent
Our adopted rules of Parliamentary Procedure, Robert's Rules, provide for a consent agenda listing
several items for approval of the Board by a single motion. Documentation concerning these items has
been provided to all Board members and the public in advance to ensure an extensive and thorough
review. Any item which appears on the consent agenda may be removed by majority vote of the board
and placed on the regular agenda.

3. Closing Items
Subject :

3.1 Adjournment

Meeting :

May 19, 2015 - Special Meeting, 12:00 p.
m.

Type :

