BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 23, 2011
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session June 23, 2011 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.

OPENING ITEMS
At 6:30 p.m. President Ann Whitmyer called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Ann
Whitmyer, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Executive Session
At 6:35 p.m., the Board adjourned to executive session. The purpose of the executive session
was litigation and potential litigation. At 7 p.m. the Board reconvened to regular session.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Ken Gass moved and Scott Stockburger seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of June 9, 2011 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, June 6, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, June 10, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, June 17, 2011

($25,400.00)
($369,130.00)
($98,460.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, June 10, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal, June 14, 2011

($1,223,400.00)
($2,613,275.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND

School Board Minutes
June 23, 2011
Page 2 of 5
xxx

WCIP, investment June 6, 2011
WCIP, investment June 10, 2011
WCIP, investment June 17, 2011

$31,600.00
$7,500.00
$1,000.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal June 6, 2011
WCIP, investment June 10, 2011
WCIP, withdrawal June 17, 2011

($50,245.00)
$72,290.00
($50,785.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll, May 2011
Action on May, 2011 Expenditures and Payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing
Committee.
Approval of Policy and Procedure 3207, Harassment, Intimidation and Bullying
Action on Policy and Procedure 3207, Harassment, Intimidation and Bullying.
Approval of Policy and Procedure 3210, Equal Education Opportunity: Nondiscrimination
Action on Policy and Procedure 3210, Equal Education Opportunity: Nondiscrimination.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on Personnel Recommendations as submitted.
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith participated in the graduation ceremony at Squalicum High School and attended the
retirement function for Doug Kyles and Karst Brandsma.
Ken Gass awarded diplomas at Sehome High School and Community Transitions and attended
Options High School graduation. At Community Transitions, recognition was given to retiring
Vocational Counselor Terry Hayes. Dr. Gass participated in a meeting with Superintendent
Baker and Board President Whitmyer. He has also been watching several videos on education.
Scott Stockburger participated in the graduation ceremony at Squalicum and Options high
schools. He commented that the Options High School graduation was especially meaningful. Dr.
Stockburger also noted the passing of Nancy Gerner, who retired in 2001 as Purchasing
Manager.
Kelly Bashaw awarded diplomas at Bellingham High School and attended graduations at Options
High School and Community Transitions. She also attended the retirement celebration for Doug
Kyles and Karst Brandsma.
Ann Whitmyer joined other directors in awarding diplomas at Bellingham and Sehome high
schools. She attended graduation at Options High School and was touched in hearing each
graduate speak and thank the staff. President Whitmyer commented that all three graduations
were wonderful and reflected the different personalities of the schools. She also commented that
as the Board considers the appropriate evidence required to fulfill the requirements of Policy

School Board Minutes
June 23, 2011
Page 3 of 5

Governance Ends, they need to listen to the graduation speeches at each of the schools. The
student’s comments provided evidence toward meeting the ends. Ms. Whitmyer participated in
the luncheon meeting with Dr. Gass and Dr. Baker. She joined Dr. Baker in a conference call
regarding Policy Governance and indicated she would be working to arrange additional
professional development for the Board and staff. Finally, Ms. Whitmyer attended the retirement
celebration for Doug Kyles and Karst Brandsma.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Baker reflected on the end of the school year and commented that many staff
members are still working. He participated in graduation ceremonies at the four high schools and
Community Transitions and noted that each reflected the uniqueness of each school. On June 22,
administrators, including new administrators, met in the first end-of-the-school-year retreat.
They covered a wide variety of topics, ranging from online learning to creating an entry plan for
new leaders.
Dr. Baker asked Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable to review the 2011–12 calendar. Mr.
Venable explained that elementary and middle school staff and families have been frustrated
over the previous November parent-teacher conference schedule, which included six early
dismissals in a row. This schedule does not align with the District’s current semester grading and
progress reporting. Mr. Venable and the K-5 Report Card Committee have been exploring a new
schedule that allows teachers to engage families throughout the school year by providing
frequent reporting of student progress and performance, not just in November. Beginning with
the 2011–12 school year, four non-school days are tentatively included at nine-week intervals
(Oct. 28, Jan. 30, Mar. 23, and June 20) for teachers to use to report student progress and
collaborate with colleagues. Throughout the 2011–12 school year, work will continue to refine
the structure and develop standards-based progress reports. This work will evolve in stages over
time, given the current different status of standards-based progress reports at each level. Staff
will also continue to identify and align assessments, instructional resources and professional
development. Mr. Venable acknowledged this work will take time, but felt this calendar would
give the District a better structure for reporting progress and engaging families.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Executive Limitation Report EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
Superintendent Greg Baker gave a monitoring report on EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent,
which states that:
The Superintendent shall not cause or allow any practice, activity, decision, condition,
procedure or organizational circumstance which is unlawful, unethical, unsafe, disrespectful,
imprudent, unfair, inequitable, disruptive, undignified or in violation of contract, Board
policy, or collective bargaining agreements.
Dr. Baker reported to the Board evidence of compliance of Executive Limitation EL-1 for the
time period of July 1, 2010 through June 2011. The Board will respond to this Monitoring Report
at the July 7, 2011 Board meeting.

School Board Minutes
June 23, 2011
Page 4 of 5

Executive Limitation Report EL-18, Mandatory Policies
Superintendent Greg Baker and Director Tanya Rowe gave a monitoring report on EL-18,
Mandatory Policies, which states that:
The board understands that certain legislative bodies may require the board to adopt policies
that would be considered operational and therefore delegated to the Superintendent under
Policy Governance. In order to satisfy both these regulatory requirements and the board’s
desire to delegate operational issues to the Superintendent, the board adopts this policy.
Accordingly, the Superintendent shall not fail to:
1. Create and implement policies as required by local, state and federal legislation
pertaining, for example, to the areas:
a. Title I Parent Involvement;
b. Health and Nutrition;
c. Use of pesticides;
d. Alternative Learning Experience Programs
e. Other policies as required.
2. Present the proposed policy to the board for review, before implementation.
Dr. Baker and Ms. Rowe reported to the Board evidence of compliance of Executive Limitation
EL-18 for the time period of June 2010 through June 2011. The Board will respond to this
Monitoring Report at the July 7, 2011 Board meeting.
Governance Process Policies GP–9, Board Members’ Conflict of Interest and GP–10, Board
Members’ Compensation and Expenses
In accordance with Policy Governance, the Board reviewed Governance Process policies GP–9
and GP–10. They agreed to discuss revisions to the wording at their July 14 Study Session.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Policy Governance EL-5, Staff Compensation
Policy Governance EL-13, Academic Standards and Practices
Policy Governance EL-14, Academic Program
Policy Governance EL-15, Instructional Materials Selection
Policy Governance EL-17, Student Conduct and Discipline
President Ann Whitmyer recommended the Board discuss these five Executive Limitations
further and consider possible wording revisions at their July 14 Study Session. It was further
suggested that the Executive Limitations should reflect the core values of the District and more
clearly define the evidence needed to substantiate compliance.

ACTION ITEMS
Elementary Literacy Curriculum Adoption Recommendation
Deputy Superintendent Tom Venable introduced Dawn Christiana, who co-facilitated the
Literacy Advisory Task Force with Pam Pottle. According to Ms. Christiana, the last literacy
curriculum adoption was 1991. Beginning in 2010, there was a renewed focus on literacy and a

School Board Minutes
June 23, 2011
Page 5 of 5

common core curriculum for all K–5 students. A district-wide Literacy Needs Assessment
survey was completed. Results from that survey and a review of student performance on state
assessments supported the need to consider a common core curriculum. Ms. Christiana explained
the importance of the components of a common core curriculum, which would encompass
professional development and reading resources, standards-based assessment and common
literacy resources.
The Task Force reviewed a wide range of currently available balanced literacy materials before
recommending Benchmark Literacy/Benchmark Education. Ms. Christiana responded to
questions from the Board.
Kelly Bashaw moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to approve Benchmark Literacy/
Benchmark Education as the new Elementary Literacy Curriculum. The motion carried
unanimously.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Steve Smith assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was good.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:15 p.m.

