DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 9, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5
•
•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
December 9, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. He acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin (President),
Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Annual Organizational Meeting, Election of Officers
Board President: Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to
nominate Ms. Mason for this position for the coming year, and Ms. Mason agreed to
serve. Unanimous affirmative vote. Ms. Mason assumed the role of board president.
Board Vice President: Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to
nominate Ms. Bashaw for this position for the coming year, and Ms. Bashaw agreed to
serve. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Audience:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
We are a week and a half away from winter break, and staff continues to work hard. Dr.
Baker began meeting last week with the staff from each building and department, using
those meetings as an opportunity for feedback and questions from staff.
Students attending in person currently include grades PreK, K and 1, as well as K-12 Life
Skills and BRIDGES. Internet cafes are in operation, some high school athletes are
participating in athletic turnouts, and programs via community partnerships are still
operating in-person at district sites. When a confirmed COVID case is reported, protocols
are followed in order to minimize exposure to additional students or adults.
Staff continue to work on next steps to bring additional students back in person. Grade 2
and Promise K are tentatively planned to begin in January, with return dates for grades 312 yet to be determined. Data will be monitored over winter break so we will have a
sense when we return from break what the conditions are in the district, county, state and
country.

•

•

•
•

Dr. Baker shared a new district dashboard on our website, which identifies cases that
would cause a classroom or a school to see a change in in-person learning. Staff will
continue to look at best practices to determine what data is best to be shared with the
public.
Furniture, music stands, tables, etc. have been distributed to 176 families; 47,000 meals
are being provided via the weekly meal boxes; and daily meals are also being provided to
students who are attending school in-person. We continue to refine how we communicate
with families when there is a suspected case. We are grateful that transportation staff
have returned to work, having put safety protocols into place. Buildings and grounds staff
continue to work hard to implement our protocols and best practices.
The Bellingham Fire Department delivered new coats to students at Cordata Elementary
today.
Dr. Baker responded to questions from board members.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Nov. 4, 2020 Regular Meeting and Nov. 18, 2020 Special
Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – November 2020
Approval of Donations
Resolution 31-20, Cancellation of Stale-Dated Checks
Resolution 32-20, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Resolution 33-20, Acceptance of Sehome High School Replacement Project
Approval to Call for Bids, Food Service Shelf Stable Food Products
Hire Appraiser for Property Appraisal
EL-7 Monitoring Report – Budget Planning and Execution
EL-9 Monitoring Report – Asset Maintenance and Protection
Whatcom County Health Department Behavioral Health Services Contract (#2021005B)
Brock’s Academy Tuition Agreement (#2021-065)
Northwest Evaluation Association (NWEA) MAP Testing Agreement (#2021-069)
Soliant Health, LLC Client Assignment Confirmation (#2021-074)
Whatcom County Health Department Expenditure Reimbursement (#2021-079)
Comcast Cable Communications Management, LLC Amendment to Agreement
(#2021-082)
Blaine, Ferndale and Meridian School District Interlocal Agreement (#2021-083)
Franklin Covey Client Sales, Inc. Agreement (#2021-085)
Salish Sea Deaf School Contract for Professional Services (#2021-088)
State of Washington Department of Enterprise Services Interagency Agreement
(#2021-089)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22

2

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1

4.2

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-1 (Attachment A). Ms. Mason will provide a final summary version of this document
which will be submitted for approval at the January 13, 2021 regular meeting.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5, Communication and Counsel to the Board
The board discussed the feedback contained in the combined monitoring responses for
EL-5 (Attachment B), as well as a suggested change to the policy. Ms. Mason will
provide a final summary version of the monitoring document which will be submitted for
approval at the January 13, 2021 regular meeting, and Ms. Rose and Mr. Benjamin will
research possible edits to the policy and report their findings at a future meeting.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Bashaw has observed students participating in cross country and tennis turnouts
at Bellingham High School.
• Ms. Rose reflected on conversations she had this time last year with late Sunnyland
principal Lynn Heimsoth after Ms. Rose was elected to the school board, and what a
difficult first year it has been while serving on the board.
• Mr. Benjamin enjoyed guitar player Mike Rayburn’s keynote at the virtual WSSDA
conference. He noted that the virtual format for the conference was not ideal. Mr.
Benjamin’s daughter, who is a student at BHS, has been participating in outdoor,
socially distanced dance team practices at Roosevelt Elementary.
• Ms. Mason continues to be impressed with the staff at her daughter’s school, Carl
Cozier Elementary. They have created a lovely community feeling for students who
are able to be back in person.
GP-7.2 – 2020-21 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

5.0

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:57 p.m.

6.2

Approved:

Jennifer I. Mason, Board President

3

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

