DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 13, 2021

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

•

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 13, 2021 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Mason called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz
Hackler, Jenn Mason (President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Ms. Mason noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public
participation is limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received
will be shared with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages
received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
While it is challenging for school to be in session during a pandemic, the school year
continues to go well. All administrators and nearly all certificated staff have provided
proof of vaccination, and a large percentage of eligible students have been vaccinated.
The rate of transmission in the community is going down and vaccines for 5–11-year-old
students are on the horizon. The district has received a grant to support COVID-19
testing, which is required for some extra-curricular activities. While many districts are
not allowing student homecoming dances, a district team has been working to determine
how this can occur safely. Dr. Baker responded to questions from board members.
Tonight’s consent agenda contains a new grading policy that is the result of the High
School Grading Practice Task Force which is comprised of students, families and staff, to
help bring fairness and equity to high school grading. Grades should not be about
punishing or sorting students, and Dr. Baker is proud of the work that has brought this
policy forward. Dr. Baker, Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning Jay Jordan
and Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Trina Hall responded to questions from
board members.
Dr. Baker shared some photos of the new Alderwood and Parkview elementary schools
and current construction at Sunnyland. He also shared architect renderings of the new
District Office on Barkley Blvd. A new facilities planning task force began meeting a
couple weeks ago and includes students, staff, leaders, parents/guardians and community
partners. They are working right now to confirm what could be on our next bond, which

may be on a ballot in Feb. 2022. The goals of the bond are to 1) begin design work for the
replacement of Roosevelt, Columbia and Carl Cozier to set the stage for a future bond; 2)
build a 15th elementary school and use as swing space; 3) build a new facility for our
Community Transitions program; 4) support completion of current capital projects,
including Sunnyland, Environmental Education site, District Office and high school
fields; and 5) support districtwide facility needs at a variety of schools across our district,
including new inclusive playgrounds.
2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the Sept. 15, 2021 Regular Meeting and Oct. 5, 2021 School
Board Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2021
Resolution 22-21, Transfer of Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the General
Fund
Award of Bid for Water Main Relocation and Early Grading Project
Policy 1400 (update) – Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Policy 2420 (new) – Grading and Progress Reports
EL-1 Monitoring Report – Expectations of Superintendent
EL-10 Monitoring Report – Race and Equity
Center for High School Success (#2122-060)
Hub International Northwest, LLC Contract (#2122-075)
OSPI iGrant 215 Perkins Assurance (#2122-077)
OSPI iGrant 217 Highly Capable Program Assurances
Agreement for Services Malcolm Oliver (#002-2122)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Bashaw enjoyed the board visit to Sehome High School last week and shared that
it felt good to be at a school again. She appreciated the presentation made by staff.
• Mr. Benjamin shared that everyone on the board completed the WSSDA selfassessment, which will be used as one element to develop a board improvement plan
while at the WSSDA annual conference in November. He enjoyed the visit to Sehome
High School and is impressed with the co-teaching work that is being done. He noted
that the League of Women Voters recently hosted a candidate forum and he enjoyed
watching Ms. Mason.
• Ms. Rose commented that the board’s visit to Sehome High School was phenomenal.
She recognizes the immense amount of preparation time it takes for teachers to coteach and make the curriculum accessible for everyone, and she hopes that it
continues to be a priority. Ms. Rose regularly attends ADHD conferences where
2

3.2

many attendees are neuro-divergent and have suffered deep wounds of shame.
Developing systems that prevent those wounds is important.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler also enjoyed the recent visit to Sehome High School and learned a
lot. While she has always supported co-teaching, she never knew how much
preparation goes into it. The opportunity to see everyone in person at Sehome was
great, as was a recent lunch with Mr. Benjamin and Dr. Baker. She looks forward to
more opportunities to come together.
• Ms. Mason thanked Sehome High School for the presentation to the board last week.
As the parent of an elementary age child with disabilities, knowing more about what
is happening in the upper grades is reassuring. Ms. Mason also noted that this Friday
is the deadline to cancel any registrations for the November WSSDA annual
conference.
GP-7.2 – 2021-22 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:47 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Jennifer I. Mason, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

3

