DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 12, 2022

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 12, 2022 – Options High School, 2015 Franklin St., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgment:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting
is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Coast Salish people.
Roll Call:
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler,
Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
• Keith Allex, journeyman painter for the district, thanked Dr. Baker and the school
board for their continued leadership and commitment to The Bellingham Promise.
There have been many changes in facilities (formerly buildings and grounds)and
Sustainability department, which he believes have been an improvement.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker shared photos from the recent Sunnyland Elementary Community Open
House, which had great energy and attendance and felt like a block party. Sunnyland
students were proud to show family members and neighbors their new school. The
inclusive playground is a hit with the Sunnyland community, and the first elementary
turf field should be open at Sunnyland within the next two to three weeks.
• Every six years the district’s high schools go through an extensive accreditation
process, and the district was recently recognized by Northwest Educational Service
District 189 for being one of the first districts to combine the process for all district
high schools, rather than each high school going through the process individually.
• The recent College Fair at Sehome High School exposed the district’s high school
students to colleges, universities and other post-graduate opportunities. It was great to
have this event in person again.
• Updated staff identification badges will include key phone numbers, including the tip
line and the crisis line.
• Construction is continuing at the new district office site on Barley Boulevard.
• The Bellingham High School gym floor refurbishment was recently completed.
Updated logos were installed on the floor and walls of the gym, and new bleachers
were also installed.

•

2.0

The second teacher workday of the year is scheduled for this Friday, with staff
engaged in learning across the district will as well as within individual schools. There
is a focus this year on inclusive practices.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Rose indicated that she is employed by the Opportunity Council, and agenda item 2.2
contains a payment to the Opportunity Council. To avoid a conflict of interest per RCW
42.23.030, Ms. Rose will recuse herself from voting on item 2.2. Ms. Rose made a
motion to vote on item 2.2 separately. Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous
affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22
2.23
2.24
2.25

Approval of Minutes of the Sept. 14, 2022 Regular Meeting and Oct. 4, 2022 School
Visit
Resolution 19-22, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
New Policy – Policy 3411, Accommodating Students with Seizure Disorder or
Epilepsy
Policy Updates – Policy 2161 and Policy 3416
Memo – Discipline Appeal Council
EL-1 Monitoring Report – Expectations of Superintendent
EL-10 Monitoring Report – Race and Equity
Squalicum Tennis Courts Conservation Easement
Whatcom Educational Credit Union Building Lease (#2122-173)
Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Agreement Amendment #3 (#2223-002C)
Whatcom Family YMCA Facilities Use Agreement (#2223-028)
Communities in Schools of Whatcom-Skagit Agreement (#2223-033)
Northwest Evaluation Association MAP Testing Sales Order (#2223-042)
Learn to Return Funding Agreement (#2223-048)
Microsoft Corporation Services Work Order (#2223-059)
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Agreement (#2223-065)
Capital Region ESD 113 Fingerprinting Services Interlocal Agreement (#2223-067)
OSPI Grant 215 Perkins Assurances (#2223-068)
Maxim Healthcare Staffing Services, Inc. Agreement (#2223-072)
Puget Sound Energy Grant Agreements (#2223-073 and #2223-073A)
PEPPM Cooperative Purchasing Interlocal Agreement (#2223-074)
Sendan Center Agreement for Services (#004-2223)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contract
Ms. Mason seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the following
consent agenda item:

2.2

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2022
2

Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Diaz Hackler, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Rose.
3.0
3.1
3.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
GP-7.2 – 2022-23 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – no action needed.
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Mr. Benjamin loved last week’s school board visit to Birchwood. Contact with
students is important as they are the reason we serve on the board. The exercise at the
beginning of the school visit was powerful. He shared that he is running unopposed
for the District Area 1 position on the WSSDA board of directors. He attended a good
portion of the WSSDA General Assembly, where prioritized measures were
identified. District boards should now select the top 10 priorities from the list
generated by WSSDA. He asked the other board members and Dr. Baker to select
their top 10 priorities and send them to himself and Ms. Bashaw, who will then
compile and send the combined top 10 priorities to WSSDA.
• Ms. Mason thanked Mr. Benjamin for attending the WSSDA General Assembly. She
agreed that the Birchwood visit was amazing, and she loved visiting the classrooms.
The school spaces are being well used and are a good representation of the families
making up the school community. She acknowledged that it can be challenging for
new families who move into the district. She recently met with principals to talk
about inclusionary practices. She is grateful for the work of this district.
• Ms. Rose echoed the praise for the Birchwood visit. She thought the circle time
exercise normalizing each student’s feelings in a second-grade classroom was great.
The Sunnyland open house was fun.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler enjoyed seeing teachers at Birchwood use scaffolding to help
students learn. The Birchwood music teacher had received new instruments which
caused some excitement for the students. She attended the Sunnyland open house as
well as the Parkview Elementary open house, where she met Parkview’s new
principal. She noted that she sees people on the Sunnyland playground each time she
drives by, even in the evenings. The Parkview playground is also well used.
• Ms. Bashaw agreed that the Birchwood visit was great. It hit home for her what it is
like for students beginning at a new school when English is not their first language.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Rose assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:27 p.m.

5.2

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President
3

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

