DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 15, 2022

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

•

•

•

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
February 15, 2022 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She acknowledged that this meeting,
while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands of the
Coast Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw (President), Douglas Benjamin,
Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri
O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19, public participation is
limited to written submissions only, and all written comments received will be shared
with the school board directors. Each board member has seen all messages received.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
The results for the Feb. 8 facilities bond look hopeful, with it currently passing by 60.6
percent. The certification will be this Friday at 5 p.m. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to
the school board, executive team, staff and Citizens for Bellingham Schools campaign for
their incredible amount of work, as well as the voters who supported the measure. There
were 11 school districts across the state with bonds on the ballot and as of Tuesday
evening none of them were passing. Currently both Northshore and Bellingham appear to
be passing. Dr. Baker shared photos of students and staff from Community Transitions,
Squalicum, Carl Cozier, Columbia and Roosevelt, showing their excitement for the
passage of the bond. The next levy election will likely be Feb. 2024. Dr. Baker responded
to questions and comments from board members.
Two new advisory groups are being formed
o Sustainability Task Force to be facilitated by Director of Facilities and
Sustainability Mark Peterson and Executive Director of Operations Jessica
Sankey.
o Comprehensive Sexual Health Education Review and Alignment Task Force,
which will include high school students, parent representatives, district staff,
community members and an outside facilitator.
Over the past month we saw the number of COVID-19 cases peak, and we are feeling
more hopeful with fewer student and staff absences over the past two weeks. We have
hired additional substitutes, and schools have received strategic support by way of
District Office staff assisting in school offices and classrooms. Dr. Baker met via Zoom

•

•

•

•

with Senator Patty Murray, U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona and others last
week, and he expects to hear an update from the governor on Thursday regarding changes
to the state’s mask mandate. The Kettle Falls School Board voted on Monday to
eliminate masking in Kettle Falls schools, which resulted in a notification from OSPI that
they are breaking the law and are at risk to lose state funding. As a reminder, Bellingham
Public Schools has an extensive webpage with COVID information, including FAQs and
staff contact information.
Dr. Baker periodically speaks to college classes about policy governance and
superintendent evaluation, and last week he presented to a group of Western Washington
University doctoral students. The students read two policies, the most recent reports for
those policies, the initial school board comments and the board’s final summary
responses. They were impressed with the amount of data and the transparency around the
work. They appreciated the predictability of the policy governance cycle and were able to
recognize the team of staff members who contribute to the monitoring of district policies.
Administrator announcements were made today:
o Shuksan Middle School Principal Matt Whitten, who is well respected in the
district as an outstanding leader, was selected as the new assistant superintendent
of human resources.
o Director of Human Resources JoAn Steiner announced her plans to retire this
summer, and her position will be posted soon.
o Shuksan Middle School Assistant Principal Alli Chryst was selected as the new
principal for Shuksan. Ms. Chryst has been in her position at Shuksan since 2019,
so staff, students and families are familiar with her outstanding work.
o Greg Verbarendse was selected as assistant director of educational technology and
will work closely with Executive Director of Technology Kurt Gazow to help
guide the district’s technology work.
There are two Executive Limitations (EL) reports on the consent agenda, and because the
EL reports are typically listed in the consent agenda they are not presented or discussed
prior to the board submitting their monitoring report at the following regular meeting. Dr.
Baker pointed out some of the great work highlighted in these two reports:
EL-3, Treatment and Communication with Public, Parents and Students:
o Collective work engaging with our external stakeholders, including families and
community members.
o Following questions last year from the board about two-way communication,
additional information was provided in this year’s report which includes case
studies and evidence of our communication efforts with families who do not
speak English or who face other hardships or obstacles. A breakdown of our
media requests, as well as reminders of the messaging related to the 25 “first
days” throughout the 2020-21 school year; our parent academy for Spanish
speaking Latinx families; EDI work; changing the mascot at Bellingham High
School; graduation for the class of 2021; attendance area changes; the use of
digital forms as a key communication tool and so much more.

2

•

•

EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation:
o Adapted practices due to COVID-19 in numerous areas such as virtual hiring and
recruiting processes as well as many human resources processes.
o Development of creative options with robust menus of employee professional
development and training.
o Maintaining employee relationships through successful bargaining with our labor
partners, coupled with employee recognition.
o Continued work to diversify our staff.
Dr. Baker introduced Dr. Mike Copland, deputy superintendent, and Brian Rick, director
of research and assessment, who discussed the report and data set for Ends 2.1, Part 1 and
answered questions from board members.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6

Approval of Minutes of the Jan. 12, 2022 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – January 2022
Resolution 3-22, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Security Enhancement Project – Change Order
Policy 6220 (update) – Bid Requirements
EL-3 Monitoring Report – Treatment and Communication with Public, Parents and
Students
EL-4 Monitoring Report – Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Skagit Valley College – Dual Credit for CTE (#2021-089, #2122-082)
E-Rate Complete, LLC Letter of Agency (#2122-102)
Blaine, Ferndale and Meridian School District Interlocal Agreement (#2122-127)
Washington State Auditor’s Office (#2122-129)
Washington State Military Department Grant Agreement (#2122-131)
Washington Learning Source Interlocal Agreement (#2122-133)
Washington State Department of Health Funding Agreement (#2122-135)
Laura Todd Agreement for Services (#008-2122)
Risk Solutions Unlimited LLC Agreement for Services (#112-2122)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18

Unanimous affirmative vote.
3.0
3.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-7 report
that was prepared by Ms. Bashaw. Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment A).
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3

3.2

Board Response to Monitoring – EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-9 report
that was prepared by Ms. Bashaw. Following discussion, Ms. Mason made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Rose, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment B).
Unanimous affirmative vote.

4.0
4.1

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report Ends 2.1 (Part 1) – Student Competence
An overview of this report was given and discussed earlier in the meeting.

5.0
5.1

5.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Mr. Benjamin noted that he and Ms. Bashaw attended the story pole ceremony at
Alderwood Elementary School last week, where Lummi Nation elders shared
meaningful comments. Following the ceremony, Alderwood Principal Micah Smith
gave Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Bashaw a tour of the new Alderwood facility. Mr.
Benjamin attended the Jan. 30 WSSDA Legislative Assembly virtually, which was
challenging. He was recently appointed to the WSSDA board of directors to represent
Area 1 and has attended a retreat where he was assigned to an equity subcommittee.
He looks forward to sharing the equity work of the Bellingham Public Schools. He
advised there is an Area 1 meeting on May 24 in Anacortes. He is interested to
unpack the results of the bond measure.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler apologized that she is currently unable to attend morning meetings
due to family commitments.
• Ms. Bashaw agrees the story pole ceremony at Alderwood was great. She also
attended the WSSDA Legislative Assembly and met with four of the six
representatives from the 40th and 42nd legislative districts, including Senator Sefzik.
She appreciated the assembly being virtual and wonders if participation was higher
due to the format.
GP-7.2 – 2021-22 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
n/a

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:15 p.m.

7.2

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President

4

Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

5

ATTACHMENT A
2/15/22 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-7, Budget Planning and Execution
Date Report Submitted: 12/8/2021
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1/12/2022
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The Board loved hearing about the Back-to-School block party event and hopes that it will
continue to welcome all students and families. It is a great way to connect families and students to
the services that BSD offers. The pandemic impacted the budget planning and execution process
in many ways and the report demonstrates how knowledgeable, flexible and forward-thinking
staff had to be to take advantage of the funding opportunities. There have been no external audit
findings for the past 16 years.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
No areas for additional improvement.
4. Comments on the report itself.
The report seems detailed, reflecting significant work. We appreciate the clarification on how
BSD’s governance model impacts the implementation of the standards laid out by the GFOA.
5. Possible changes to the policy.
No changes to the policy.
1

ATTACHMENT B
2/15/22 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
Date Report Submitted: 12/8/2021
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1/12/2022
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.*
b. is making reasonable progress towards
c. is making reasonable progress toward
achieving the goals.
compliance.*
c. is making reasonable progress towards
d. is not in compliance or is not making
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
progress is expected in some areas.*
e. cannot be determined*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)

2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
The district is sharpening the focus on sustainability and is forward thinking and impressive. We
appreciate the hard work needed to maintain “Excellence” ratings by the Washington State Patrol.
The navigation of logistical and staffing challenges due to the pandemic, including difficulty
hiring for certain positions, furniture surplus and supply chain issues. The district completed over
200 maintenance measures during the 2020-21 school year.
3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
There were no areas for additional improvement.
4. Comments on the report itself.
The Board appreciated the detailed explanation of how energy efficiency can be measured, as
well as the barriers to getting meaningful data this year. It is very helpful to have new
issues/information highlighted.

1

ATTACHMENT B
2/15/22 board meeting minutes

Monitoring Response Document
Policy Monitored: EL-9, Asset Maintenance and Protection
Date Report Submitted: 12/8/2021
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 1/12/2022
5. Possible changes to the policy.
The Board will consider adding further language to EL-9 which calls out an emphasis on
sustainability, energy efficiency/alternatives and being mindful of climate change and health.

2

