DRAFT MINUTES OF THE STUDENT ROUNDTABLE SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 4, 2020 1:15-2:15 p.m.
Linkage Attendees:
• Third grade students from Carl Cozier Elementary School
• Directors present: Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose
• Superintendent of Bellingham Public Schools Greg Baker
• District Leadership and Staff: Deputy Superintendent Mike Copland; Assistant
Superintendent Steve Clarke; Executive Director Kristi Dominguez; Executive Director
Jay Jordan; Assistant Superintendent Bob Kuehl; Communications Manager Dana
Smith; Early Childhood specialist Debbie Haney; Carl Cozier teacher Lara Stark; Carl
Cozier Principal Ari Feeney; Executive Administrative Assistant Sheri O’Day
(notetaker).
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: School Board President Douglas Benjamin
called the meeting to order at 1:16 p.m. Superintendent Greg Baker welcomed attendees
and invited all to introduce themselves.
Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Student Roundtable: Mr. Benjamin thanked
everyone for taking time to be here this afternoon. Student roundtables give the school
board an opportunity to strengthen the connection with our students, and the school board
is excited to hear what students have to say about their experiences. He shared that the
school board and district are also interested in seeking input on the goals we have set for
our students through the board policies expressed in our strategic plan, The Bellingham
Promise. There are six guiding questions located on each table, and the hope is for each
group to discuss as many of the guiding questions as time allows.
Small Group Discussion with School Board Members and Facilitators: For
discussion purposes, student attendees, board members and executive team members
were divided into five groups, facilitated by Doug Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn
Mason, Katie Rose and Jay Jordan. The small groups focused on the following guiding
questions:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Tell me about a time when you felt really loved at school.
How do students work through problems here?
What do you want to be when you grow up?
What do you know about middle or high school?
What do you look forward to about going to middle school or high school?

6. What are some of the things we could be doing differently to help you or your
friends?
At the end of the small group time, Dr. Baker asked each table group to share briefly
about their small group discussions. Following is a summary of responses to the guiding
questions:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

When other people help me, either a friend or family member, I feel helped.
Strategies for problem solving include asking for help, rock/paper/scissors,
talking it out, walking away and taking turns.
One problem that we need help from adults with is bullying, especially on the
playground.
School is a place to practice what you want to do when you become an adult. We
would like more opportunities to help animals and we miss Common Threads.
Things to look forward to in middle and high school are having a laptop, getting a
driver’s license and harder math.
We feel loved at school when friends stand up for us or help us when we get hurt
(friends helping friends).
We think we’ll have bigger classrooms, bathrooms and cafeterias in middle and
high school, as well as more homework and harder math.
When we grow up, we’d like to be a police officer, NASA engineer, teacher or
veterinarian.
Things we’d like to see changed include a new building; chocolate milk in the
cafeteria; fixing the short toilets; better equipment; more soccer balls and
basketballs; and more reading time.
Things we don’t want to change include lunchtime; reading; P.E.; library and
math. We miss our P.E. teacher, Mr. Christy.
Things that make me feel loved are when people are glad to see me, and when
someone falls off of the bars and a friend helps them to get up. It seems like older
kids care more about each other than the younger kids do.
There is some fighting and swearing at school.
Occupations that interest us include being a veterinarian; a driver of boats, trucks
and trains; an athlete; a blacksmith and a you-tuber.
Students in middle and high school get to drive cars, have phones, get donuts on
Friday and play tackle football.
We would like to have pets at school.
We like seeing our siblings at school.
We’d like more recess time; donuts instead of bagels; and we can’t wait to drive.
We want to be scientists, inventors, engineers, doctors and a Mack truck driver. I
want to go to Harvard and be a teacher at Harvard teaching art and engineering.
We solve problems by talking them through with each other, asking adults to help
and using the Kelso’s Choice wheel of choice.
In middle and high school there are tests every day; school is harder; and there are
vending machines and donuts.

2

•

We would like vending machines with healthy snacks; outdoor spa treatments; a
new building; a robot science program; and ladders on the bars for kindergarten
students. Also, more equipment; real classroom walls, not moveable walls; and
kids should get Promise awards.

Dr. Baker thanked everyone for being here this afternoon. Student voice is important and
helps the school board and district determine how to make things better.
Mr. Benjamin also thanked everyone for attending and adjourned the meeting at 2:05
p.m.
Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ____________

3

