DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
April 22, 2020

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
April 22, 2020 – via remote Zoom meeting.
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He acknowledged that this
meeting, while attended from various locations, is being held on the ancestral homelands
of the Coastal Salish people. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker
and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Audience:
Mr. Benjamin noted that, because of our current emergency status due to COVID-19,
public participation is limited to written submissions only. Any written comments
received will be shared with the school board directors. He also noted that it is
Administrative Professionals Day and thanked Sheri for her support of the school board,
and Dr. Baker who serves in the capacity of official secretary to the board.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Everyone is working very hard, and students, staff and families are experiencing
varying levels of stress as we go through this time. It is difficult work, and anxiety is
higher than normal due to the uncertainties and unknowns. Our first priority is around
safety, and we have worked hard to have staff working remotely rather than in district
facilities. While some members of our community are uncomfortable with the
Lighthouse Mission being located at Bellingham High School, most feedback from
the community has been supportive. Staff will ensure that the facility is cleaned and
returned to the condition that it was in prior to students and staff leaving in March.
• Food Services has been preparing 2,500 weekly meal boxes to be picked up from 16
locations. Beginning on May 4, we will shift to serving seven days of food rather than
five days, due to a change in what government funding will allow. We have been
delivering food to families who are not able to go to one of the pickup stations. Staff
has also been preparing food for the childcare programs and the Lighthouse Mission
that are in our facilities. Dr. Baker expressed appreciation to all staff making this
possible.
• The district is working with partners to provide child care for children of first
responders. Child care is a big challenge across the country, and there are a lot of
questions, such as what that care will look like in the summer.

•

•

•

•
•
•
•

Staff is working to prepare learning opportunities for students. There are many
nuances to this, such as what a high school credit looks like right now. Graduation is
also a big topic and Dr. Baker and others have been meeting with student groups to
process graduation. Although graduation ceremonies will very likely not occur in
June, there will be opportunities to get together at some point to celebrate the
students’ accomplishments. Our team is brainstorming how to deliver diplomas and
celebrate with our seniors the best that we can. It will be a unique experience, unlike
the experiences that their parents and older siblings had.
Grading at the high school level is very complex, and the state superintendent has
come out with guidance. Over the next few days, districts will begin communicating
their approaches to grading. There is not a clear-cut answer that is the right answer for
all. Grading did not work for everyone before the virus, and it is an even bigger
challenge now. Our highest priority is to do no harm, and we likely will put some
ideas out for feedback in the next few days. The state superintendent made it clear
that students will not receive Fs, and a pass/no pass option is not an option. Districts
will be using either an incomplete or a letter grade of A, B, C or D. We will not be
rushing to an answer for grading, as there are many circumstances of students to
consider.
There is much discussion about synchronous vs. asynchronous when it comes to
students participating in classes at defined times. One model is to have teachers send
assignments to students on Monday and Tuesday, with students having the rest of the
week to complete assignments. We are continuing to try things out, learning and
adjusting as we go, and being careful about our approach.
We continue to refine our thinking in order to limit the need for students and families
to pick up supplies from school. It may be that a delivery model of some sort will be
put into place.
Some of our 12,000 students do not have access to technology or WiFi. That is not a
problem that is quickly solved, but we are working to get devices and WiFi to
households.
A virtual conversation is scheduled via Zoom for this Friday afternoon. Questions are
being submitted from the community, and there will be a capability to submit
questions during the live event.
The state legislature wrapped up its session and included some additional funding for
preK-12 public education, however, many of those earmarked funds were vetoed by
the governor, who cited the many financial challenges and unknowns due to the
pandemic. We are waiting to see what the impact of the lost revenue will be and how
it will affect our state funding. This will necessitate a more conservative approach
to district budget planning, including some positions not being filled. Special
Education enrollment has increased, and we will be hiring some specialist
positions as well as a Director of Special Education. It was hoped that we would be
hiring additional math TOSA (teacher on special assignment) support, which will not
occur now, although Title I funds will allow some positions to be filled. It is
anticipated that we will be making some improvements to radio systems on buses and
in schools. Once budget feedback has been received from the community,
refinement to the proposed budget will be made.

2

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to approve the following
consent agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9

Approval of Minutes of the March 25, 2020 Regular Meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – March 2020
Resolution 3-20, Authorization of Warrant Signature
Resolution 4-20, Emergency Suspension of Policy
Resolution 5-20, Emergency Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
Authorization to Call for Bids – Alderwood Elementary School
Whatcom Community College – College in the High School Agreement (#1920-110)
Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Cooperative Agreement (#1920-158)
Personnel Recommendations
Unanimous affirmative vote.

3.0
3.1

3.2

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and
Evaluation
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the EL-4 report
that was prepared by Mr. Benjamin. Following discussion, Ms. Bashaw made a motion,
seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the monitoring response document (Attachment A).
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Board Response to Monitoring – Ends 2.1, Part 2, Student Competence
There was discussion regarding the summary of the board responses to the Ends 2.1, Part
2 report that was prepared by Mr. Benjamin. Following discussion, Ms. Diaz Hackler
made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the monitoring response document
(Attachment B). Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin noted that all remaining monitoring reports will be suspended for the
remainder of the 2019-20 school year so that Dr. Baker and his team can focus on the
work necessary to support district students and families as a result of the pandemic. The
board will use information from the monitoring reports received thus far for the
superintendent’s evaluation summary. Mr. Benjamin will ask board members to send him
their thoughts regarding Dr. Baker’s work in response to the Covid-19.

4.0
4.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Bashaw is appreciative of the updates that Dr. Baker sends to keep the school
board directors informed. It is helpful as a board member to know about some of the
behind-the-scenes work that is happening.
• Ms. Mason shared that, from a parent perspective, she is appreciative of her
daughter’s morning Zoom meetings and feels very supported by school staff. She has
appreciated the inside look into her daughter’s classroom. The school supply pickup
process was very smooth.

3

•

4.2

Ms. Rose noted that, while she appreciates that her elementary students do not have
homework in normal times, she is now getting a better understanding of what her
children are working on day-to-day. She is hopeful that the video interactions will
continue, as it does alleviate some of the loneliness.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler shared that this is a stressful time for a lot of people who are either
working from home and trying to supervise student learning or are just worried about
the effects of Covid-19. She appreciates how Dr. Baker and State Superintendent
Chris Reykdal have addressed the importance of people. She is curious about what
the beginning of next year will look like and also how this will affect the construction
of Parkview Elementary. She loves the messaging with a focus on taking care of self
and family.
• Mr. Benjamin misses visiting the schools, as those visits are always so enjoyable and
informative.
GP-7.2 – 2019-20 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.

5.0
5.1

NEW BUSINESS
New Business:
• Mr. Benjamin noted that there was discussion at the school board retreat in February
regarding a longevity clause in the superintendent’s contract. That will be put on hold
for now, and the discussion of the superintendent’s contract will continue at a future
date.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Rose assessed the meeting, with an overall rating of
3 (good).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.

8.2

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

4

