April 9, 2020
School Board Meeting
Minutes
via Zoom/Phone Conference
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:30P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, CJ Costanti, Kelli
Kettels, and David Vis. Student Directors Ruby VanderHaak and Riley Anderson were absent and excused.
2. Good News
Although “Good News” seems limited, we would like to acknowledge the great deeds our community is doing
for each other. From ensuring care for those with limited ability, providing meals, entertaining kids with and
activities and learning lessons, and connecting with loved-ones in ways we never imagined. We all have
strengths that has uplifted or helped someone in your world. So, Thank You to the Lynden Community for
providing support and some “Good News”.
3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 April 2, 2020
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2019-20 General Fund $328,631.81 Warrants 157198 - 157319 dated March 31, 2020
• 2019-20 Capital Projects Fund $513,075.16 Warrants 157320 – 157321 dated March 31, 2020
• 2019-20 ASB Fund $11,135.10 Warrants 157322– 157337 dated March 31, 2020
• 2019-20 ACH General Fund $4,499.43 Warrants 192000287 – 192000312 dated March 31, 2020
• 2019-20 ACH ASB Fund $837.13 Warrants 19200313 – 19200321 dated March 31, 2020
• Payroll Warrant $114.21 Warrant 157181 dated March 31, 2020
• Payroll Direct Deposits $1,659,006.97 dated March 31, 2020
• Payroll Taxes Transfers $527,983.52 dated March 31, 2020
• Payroll Vendor DRS Transfer $509,409.95 dated March 31, 2020
• Payroll Vendor $581,738.20 Warrants 157182 – 157197 date March 31, 2020
• Personnel Action Items 4.2.20 (3.26.20)
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
5. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.

6. Reports


Superintendent
None at this meeting.



Teaching and Learning
None at this meeting.



Finance and Operations
None at this meeting.

7. Board Workshop
 Learning Opportunities
Elizabeth Hamming shared the different techniques and tools being used for remote teaching and
learning. Elizabeth thanked the IT personnel for their diligent work to get remote learning needs met by
providing online access and needed equipment for students and staff.


Accommodations for SPED Students
Time Metz spoke about how the SPED team is supporting students remotely through specialized services
and how they are aligning with GenEd classes. Tim provided details on student Individual Educational
Plans (IEP’s) and how they will work with families to support continued learning.



Meal Service Updates
David VanderYacht updated the Board on the services that are in place to provide families in our
community with meals while we are away from school campuses and during this time of need. David and
Jim Frey expressed their gratitude for the staff that facilitated and supports this important need.



Childcare Update
David VanderYacht updated the Board on the work taking place by staff to care for children of first
responders and essential worker families. David and Jim Frey expressed their gratitude for the staff that
facilitated and supports this important need.



COVID-19 Updates
Jim Frey shared about the continued work being done to keep students and staff engaged with one
another by utilizing technology to access school work along with hard copy school work. Jim spoke about
the equity for students by using these methods. Jim informed the Board about the new ways of providing
professional development and training for staff.

8. Action Items
9. Policy

10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:05 P.M.
11. Executive Session

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

