November 5, 2020
School Board Meeting
Minutes
via Zoom/Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:01 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, CJ Costanti, Kelli
Kettels and David Vis. Student Director, Riley Anderson was present.
2. Good News
It was great to welcome some of our 3rd-5th grade students back in our school buildings! We look forward to our
6th-12th grade students to returning to school in November.
3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• October 29, 2020
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2020-21 General Fund $333,080.02 Warrants 158644 - 158750 dated October 30, 2020
• 2020-21 ASB Fund $4,582.42 Warrants 158751 – 158757 dated October 30, 2020
• 2020-21 ACH General Fund $1,335.08 Warrants 202100015 – 202100021 dated October 30, 2020
• Payroll Direct Deposits $1,638,296.83 dated October 30, 2020
• Payroll Taxes Transfers $539,708.49 dated October 30, 2020
• Payroll Vendor DRS Transfer $537,948.56 dated October 30, 2020
• Payroll Vendor Warrants $563,339.70 Warrants 158629 – 158643 dated October 30, 2020
• Personnel Action Items 11.5.20
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
5. Information from the Audience
Community members and parents, Sandra Bennett, Keith McKenzie, Judy McKenzie and Jen Lowe expressed
to the Board of Directors the concerns and needs to have students return to in-person performing arts
programs and electives. Jim provided an update regarding the steps being addressed to engage students back
to these in-person programs.

6. Reports
• Superintendent
Reopening Update
Jim Frey updated the Board on in-person learning for grades K-5 students with the focus on attendance
and safety. Staff and families are taking the needed COVID-19 safety recommendations seriously and
continue to monitor symptom checking, distancing, and hygiene.
Jim addressed the concerns about extra-curricular activities, specifically in performing arts.
Recommendations from Labor and Industries in regards to performing arts is that we should not have inperson choir or band due to a higher risk of transmission. Jim will continue to communicate with the
local health department and risk pool management to discuss a proposal using different scenarios on
how we can engage kids in these in-person activities.
Secondary level students are to begin in-person learning on November 16th.
•

Teaching and Learning

•

Finance and Operations

7. Board Workshop
8. Action Items
• Agreement for Services (CARES Act Funding)
The Board reviewed the agreement with Whatcom County to receive funding due to COVID-19 needs for
technology and devices.
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the Agreement seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
9. Policy
The Board reviewed the following policies for a first reading:
Policy #3122 Excused and Unexcused Absences
The Board has requested further information. This policy will be brought back for a second reading.
Policy #3414 Infectious Diseases
Brian Johnson motioned to approve above Policy after first reading seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Policy #3418 Response to Student Injury or Illness
Brian Johnson motioned to approve above Policy after first reading seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Policy #6512 Infection Control Program
The Board has requested further information. This policy will be brought back for a second reading.
10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 7:50 P.M.

11. Executive Session

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
November 5, 2020

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Holz, Madison

Location
Fisher

Position
1st Grade Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
10.5 – 2.19.21

Holzer, Jennifer

BVE

5th Grade Teacher

1.0

11.2 – 6.16.21

Vario, Ashley

BVE

4th Grade Teacher

1.0

10.22.20 –
6.16.21

Comments
Leave replacement for L
Hoch
Temporary position – non
continuing - COVID
Temporary position – non
continuing - COVID

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Meyer, Lisa

Location
Isom

Powell, Kristen

Isom

Position
Music
Teacher
Teacher

FTE
1,0

Effective
10.12 – 12.18.20

1.0

10.12 – 6.16.21

Comments
Move to 1.0 during
Jorgensen LOA
Increase to 1.0 for
temporary position –
non continuing COVID

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Creasey, Leah

Location
Isom

Position
Health Room Aide

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
10.26 – 6.16.21

Frombly, Jennifer

BVE

Library Tech

7.0

10.22 – 6.24.21

Comments
Non Continuing –
Mon - Thurs
Leave replacement
for Vario

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Kooiman, Kristin

Location
BVE

Position
Head Cook

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
10.12.20

Wilson, Leah

BVE

Para Ed 3

6.0

10.12.20

1

Comments
Formerly cook’s
helper at Isom –
replaces Wilson
Formerly head cook –
replaces Elias

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Leland, Mia
VanBeek, Shelli

Location
Lynden
Academy
Fisher

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
12.1 – 4.23.2021

Teacher

.40

10.15 – 1.22.2021

Comments
Unpaid Maternity
Leave
EPSLA/EFMLA

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
9.23 – 10.30.20

Comments
Unpaid medical leave

3.0

Medical Leave

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Gobbato, Shannon

Location
LMS

Lutts, Barbara

Transportation

Position
Para
Educator
Bus Driver

Clifton, Becky

LHS

Custodian

8.0

10.12.20 –
5.14.21
10.19.20

Vario, Ashley

BVE

7.0

10.22 – 6.16.21

Postma, Jessica

Isom

Library
Tech
Para
Educator

6.0

11.24.20

West, Michelle

Isom

Cook’s
Helper

2.5

11.12.20

Unpaid leave of
absence
Leave of absence
EPFMLA ends. To
unpaid leave of
absence
Unpaid medical leave
of absence

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Crabtree, Melissa

Location
Isom

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
11.30.20

Comments
Resignation

Hrs.
2.5

Effective
10.27.20

Comments
Resignation

1.5

10.30.20

Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Pruner, Joanne

Location
BVE

Wilson, Jacquelyn

LMS

Position
Cook’s
Helper
Noon Supv

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position
Coach – Track

Effective
10.22.20

Comments
Resignation

Supplemental Resignations
Name
German, Jilanne

Location
LMS

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

