May 25, 2017
School Board Meeting – Work Session
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:34 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Kevin Burke, and Dominic
Shiu. Director, Brian Johnson was absent and excused. Student Director Katelyn Fullner was present and Devin
Gartner was absent and excused.
Vice President, Steve Jilk requested to amend the Agenda to move Construction Financial Tracking to Item #5,
Finance and Operations.
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the amended agenda seconded by Dominic Shiu. Motion carried by voice vote.
Jim Frey thanked our Student Board of Directors for their service on the Board and the value of their input at
the meetings.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• Meeting Minutes May 11, 2017
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Dominic Shiu. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2016-17 General Fund $341,712.99 Warrants 44343 – 44452 dated May 15, 2017
• 2016-17 Capital Projects $3,242,466.37 Warrants 44453 – 44455 dated May 15, 2017
• 2016-17 ASB Fund $5,894.07 Warrants 44456 – 44474 dated May 15, 2017
• 2016-17 GF ACH $2,811.77 Warrants 161700323 - 161700338 dated May 15, 2017
• 2016-17 ASB ACH $530.08 Warrants 161700339 – 161700344 dated May 15, 2017
• Personnel Action Items – May 25, 2017
Dominic Shiu motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
Nancy McHarness of “Be the One” mentoring program spoke to the Board about the progression of the
mentoring program in both the high school and middle school. Nancy shared the goals of the program and the
amount of mentor to mentee retention rate of success. Nancy provided information on possible future activities
to provide to students.
5. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - March
Jim Frey provided information on the April budget review containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
• Construction Financial Tracking
Jim Frey provided a copy of the financial tracking dashboard for both Fisher Elementary and Lynden
Middle School. Jim explained that this is used to monitor our contingency for each project and keep
track of change order expenditures and additional scope. Jim explained the program contingency
that includes additional resources beyond the amount available for each project.

6. Adjourn Meeting to go into Board Work Session

7. Board Work Session
• School Improvement Plan (SIP)
Secondary Principals, Ian Freeman, Michelle Nilsen, Molly Mitchell-Mumma, Cyndi Selcho, along with
Dean of Students, Newt Klushmire and Teacher Leader, Ellie Mink presented their joint statements on
closing the achievement gap along with their individual SIP. They shared the data that they are using
to track the achievement gap, teacher collaboration, interventions being put in place, as well as outside
services that are involved in engaging students to support them. The Board inquired how they go about
interacting with students in alternative learning methods and the challenges they face.
Elementary Principals, Becky Midboe, Patrick McClure and Courtney Ross and Teacher Leader, Ellie Mink
presented their joint statements on closing the achievement gap along with their individual SIP. They
shared the similar projects they are doing amongst the schools to collaborate teaching and professional
development and alignment of their work, the interventions taking place with activities involving
students and families, the importance of PLC’s and resources, and the importance of the data they are
able to evaluate. The Board asked about their practices to interact with students to help close the
achievement gap.

8. Executive Session (30 minutes)
Board Meeting adjourned at 9:35 P.M.
The Board discussed the Superintendent Evaluation.
Executive Session opened at 9:40 P.M. and lasted 30 minutes
Executive Session adjourned at 10:10 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
May 25, 2017

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE
1.0
1.0

Effective
17.18 SY
17.18 SY

Comments
Increase in FTE
Increase in FTE

1.0

17.18 SY

1.0

17.18 SY

JAG position ends.
Increase in FTE
Increase in FTE

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
6.0
8.00

Effective
17.18 SY
17.18 SY

Comments
Resign .50 hours
Increase 1 hour per
day

Comments
.20 Personal Leave
Unpaid Personal
Leave
Medical Leave

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Clift, Julie
Conrad, Midori

Location
LHS
LHS

Sahagian, Tiffany

LHS

Position
PE Teacher
Math
Teacher
Teacher

Anderson, Stacy

LHS

Teacher

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Kaemingk, Elaine
Lenssen, Heather

Location
CT
DO

Position
Para Ed
Receptionist

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Lynch, Christina
Webb, Louise

Location
LHS
Isom

Position
Counselor
SLP

FTE
.80
1.0

Effective
17.18 SY
10.9 – 10.19.17

Haugen, Jennifer

Fisher

Teacher

1.0

5.15 – 6.20.17

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Macy, June

Location
Fisher

Position
Noon Supv

Hrs.
3.40

Effective
9.6 - 9.18.17

Comments
Unpaid Personal Leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Fosket, Naomi

Location
Isom

Position
Music
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
6.23.17

Comments
Resignation

Effective
6.23.17

Comments
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Verburg, Cathleen

Location
Isom

Position
Para

Hrs.
6.0

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

