October 19, 2017
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31 P.M. Board members in attendance were Brian Johnson, Steve Jilk, Kevin Burke,
and Kelli Kettels. Student Directors Rubia Orellana was in attendance and Leslie Strandgard was absent and
excused.
Superintendent Frey requested that the Lynden Middle School Conference topic and the CTE Program topic be
moved up in the Agenda. All Board members agreed.
2. Good News
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Lynden Middle School has begun a new ASB/student government class. There are 28 7th & 8th graders
learning about student leadership. They planned and led the spirit assembly and the assembly was
student ideas led by students. They are learning about the qualities of leadership and planning a schoolwide fundraiser for Hurricane victims. Thanks to teacher, Amanda Bode for leading this group.
Fisher Elementary was excited to see that more than 500 people came to the Open House event!
Hope Lutheran Church has partnered again with Fisher to provide Backpack Buddies to 15 of their
students. The backpacks are filled with a weekend's worth of high-quality food that is easy for students to
eat and readily available.
Bernice Vossbeck Elementary had a fabulous turn out at their back to school night. In addition to the
regular classroom sessions, their school's positive behavior support and response to intervention and
leadership reps presented the 4 R's to the families during the overview session: Rigor; Relevance;
Relationships; and Resiliency.
Lynden High School has 1 National Merit Commended Scholar, Zachary McKay
High school student, Terry Robinson took 1st place in Public Speaking II at the National FBLA Convention
this summer.
Lynden High School is excited to host its first, competitive FBLA Cybersecurity Team with Jody Bogues as
the supervisor. Also for the first year is introduction to the Drone club.
The high school Yearbook program has joined the CTE Department and FBLA to provide more
opportunities for kids to connect and make meaning of their learning.
An after school enrichment program focused on Class of 2021 College Bound Scholarship has been
started at the high school in partnership with Futures Northwest!
Dalaini Niles and Hannah Swaney are the first two recipients of the Everyday Counts Attendance Incentive
Program at the high school. The girls received gift cards from community partners, Little Caesars Pizza
and Woods Coff, for their perfect attendance that week.
Lynden High School had 9 Advanced Placement (AP) Scholars, 5 AP Scholars with Honors, and 4 AP
Scholars with Distinction for 2017. AP Scholar designations are given to students who earn scores of 3 or
higher on multiple AP exams during their high school career.

3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• September 21, 2017 Joint Meeting
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the September 21st meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by
voice vote.

• September 28, 2017 Board Meeting
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the September 28th meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by
voice vote.
• October 12, 2017 Special Meeting
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the October 12th meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by a
2 to 0 voice vote with 1 abstention.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2016-17 General Fund $73,995.59 Warrants 45789 – 45800 dated October 13, 2017
• 2016-17 Capital Projects $180,626.78 Warrants 45801 – 45808 dated October 13, 2017
• 2016-17 ASB Fund $6,634.02 Warrants 45809 – 45816 dated October 13, 2017
• 2017-18 General Fund $181,074.10 Warrants 45942 – 46051 dated October 13, 2017
• 2017-18 Capital Project $3,868,387.28 Warrants 46052 – 46058 dated October 13, 2017
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $13,389.89 Warrants 46509 – 46066 dated October 13, 2017
• 2017-18 GF ACH $1,985.15 Warrants 171800046 - 171800062 dated October 13, 2017
• 2017-18 ASB ACH $22.50 Warrants 171800063 – 171800063 dated October 13, 2017
• Personnel Action Items 10.19.17
• Donations 10.19.17
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Steve Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice vote.
5. Information from the Audience
Sean Withrow requested to be informed of future details regarding the surplus of the Glenning Street property.
The Board assured Mr. Withrow this topic will remain an open-forum for the community to engage in discussion.
6. Reports
• Student Presentation
Lynden Middle School Leadership/ASB
Lynden Middle School Leadership/ASB members Ava Peach, Samantha Escobar, Melissa Brossow, and
Harrison Vandekop, along with ASB Coordinator Amanda Bode, presented the activities taking place in
the middle school to encourage PRIDE (Positivity, Respect, Involvement, Dependability, Effort), the moto
and #tag for the middle school students and staff. The students explained how they are promoting
spirit events, fundraisers, and acknowledgement of student and staff highlights.
Middle School Conferences
Lynden Middle School Principal Molly Mitchell-Mumma, informed the Board of plans for middle school
conferences this year and in the future. Molly provided the implementation and coordination of
parent communication and the multiple ways of seeking ongoing feedback through surveys and
meetings, and expectations of parents, staff and students.
8. Action Items
Career & Technical Education (CTE) Program
CTE Coordinator, Kent Victor explained the requirements of the Perkins Application Plan. Kent
explained that the application requires Board approval for CTE Program Evaluation Process and CTE
District Wide 5-year Plan. Kent informed the Board that community members and staff had input in
the District Wide 5-year Plan. Kent informed that our district exceeded or met all of the 2015-16
targets and that districts are required to meet at least 90 percent of an agreed upon local adjusted
level of performance for any of the core performance indicators. Kent provided what courses are
currently and in the future able to receive college credits in high school. The Board asked what CTE
programs may be offered in the future.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the CTE Program seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice vote.

6. Reports (continued)
• Superintendent
Enrollment
Jim Frey provided background on the recent enrollment study conducted by an outside consulting firm.
Jim explained the enrollment study included 5 different formulas to predict enrollment; The Cohort
(linear K), Cohort (natality K), % Change, Regression and Student per housing unit. The benefit of having
a variety of measurements is that we can use the information to see trends that all formulas include
without having to select one to be the measure.
Construction Update
Jim updated the Board on the four classroom additions at Fisher Elementary and the final punch list. Jim
gave recognition to Fisher Elementary Principal Courtney Ross, on the way she simultaneously has
handled the construction process as well as staying engaged in day-to-day school business. Jim shared
the status of Lynden Middle School construction, how it is moving at a rapid pace and how he is
impressed with the team work of our architects, contractors and sub-contractors
•

Teaching and Learning
Core Instruction
Elizabeth Hamming presented the concept of Deeper Learning for 21st Century competencies for
citizenship, college, career, and lifelong learning. Elizabeth highlighted instructional strategies to
support students at every level of learning for surface learning, deep learning and transfer learning.

•

Finance and Operations
Budget Update – August Preliminary
Patti Fairbanks provided information on the preliminary budget for August containing a summary of
financial status, enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures. Patti informed
the Board of Capital Projects fund for Fisher Elementary. Patti will provide further information regarding
the final August budget at a future meeting.

7. Board Workshop
School Board Linkage Activities
The Board reviewed topics to from them to engage in with community and stakeholders. The Board
discussed the appropriate subject and when, how these subjects should be initiated.
School Board Committees
The Board discussed their current committee assignments and how they would like to go forward to
fulfill the Finance Committee, Curriculum and PD Committee, Evaluation Committee, and Facilities and
Planning Committee.
Surplus Property
Kevin Burke, Kelli Kettels and Jim Frey provided information to Brian Johnson and Steve Jilk regarding
the October 12th Public Hearing pertaining to the sale of Glenning Street property. The Board discussed
the interests of the public and permitted obligations of selling the property and possible next steps. The
Board is in agreeance to continue communicating with the public about the intent of the Glenning Street
property.

9. Policy
None at this meeting.
10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 9:15 P.M.
11. Executive Session (30 minutes)
SEIU Contract
The Board reviewed the 2017-2020 SEIU Contract and negotiations.
Executive Session opened at 9:25 P.M.
Executive Session lasted 20 minutes
Executive Session adjourned at 9:45 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
October 12, 2017
October 19, 2017
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
2.0
3.0
6.0
1.5
1.5

Effective
10.9.17
10.16.17
10.16-6.12.18
10.16.17
10.16.17

Comments

Comments
3 hours a day on
Wednesdays added
due to high
enrollment – non
continuing
30 minutes per day
added

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Assink, Tanya
Meenk, Carlisle
Bonsen, Karla
Wilson, Jacqueline
Stewart, Raquel

Location
Isom
LA
LMS
LMS
LMS

Position
Para Educator
Para Educator
Secretary 2
Noon Supv
Noon Supv

Mon/Wed/Fri Only
Replaces Marsh
Replaces Chanik

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Black, Karole

Location
LMS

Position
Para Ed 3

Hrs.
3.0

Effective
10.4 – 6.12.18

Young, Mary

LHS

Nurse Assistant

3.5

10.2.17

FTE
1.0

Effective
11.13 – 12.22.17

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Turgeon, Abigail

Location
Isom

Position
Teacher

1

Comments
Dates approximate –
maternity leave

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Ward, Cynthia

Location
LMS

Position
Secretary 3

Hrs.
8.0

Effective
3.26.18 – 4.13.18

Comments
Unpaid leave
(spring break 4.2 – 4.6)

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
5.0

Effective
10.9.17

1.50

10.10.17

Comments
Formerly on unpaid
leave, now resigning
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Dykstra, Peggy

Location
BVE

Chanik, Kara

LMS

Position
Cook’s
Helper
Noon Supv

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Korthuis, Leah

Location
LHS

Hendricks, Marjorie

LMS

Medcalf, Nicole

LMS

Yoder, Katie

Fisher

Dillard, David
Kok, Jerry

LMS
LMS

Parson, Chad

LHS

Position
Asst Girls Basketball
Coach
Joint Technology
Team Chair
Joint Technology
Team Member
Joint Technology
Team Member
Boys Wrestling Coach
Asst Boys Basketball
Coach
Head Boys Wrestling
Coach

Effective
12.7.17

Comments
Replaces Bogaard

Position
Asst Girls Soccer
Coach
Head Boys Wrestling
Coach

Effective
10.20.17

Comments
Resignation

10.11.17

Resignation

17.18 SY
17.18 SY
17.18 SY
1.22.18
10.31.17

Replaces Scotter
Replaces White

11.13.17

Supplemental Resignations
Name
Akers, Kathy

Location
LMS/LHS

Gallegos, Frankie

LHS

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

