September 14, 2017
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Kevin Burke, and Kelli Kettels.
Board members Brian Johnson and Dominic Shiu were absent and excused. Student Directors Leslie Strandgard
and Rubia Orellana were in attendance.
2. Good News
• Fisher Elementary opened on time! Many contributed to the hard work to make sure staff and students
could occupy and start the first day of school. Thank you!
• All other schools had a great first day as well. It’s always great to see staff and students interacting
again.
• Lynden Academy has more offerings onsite including Spanish, Art & P.E. They are excited to have some
new staff members to teach these subjects and give families more learning opportunities.
• Lynden Academy is grateful for a smooth start. They have 4 different groups of kids who come in a
given week, so each group has a different “first day of school”.
• Lynden Middle School has a new ASB/student government class. There are 28 7 th and 8th graders
learning about student leadership. They planned and led the first spirit assembly. They are now
learning about the qualities of leadership and planning a school-wide fundraiser for Hurricane victims.
• Our thoughts are with Freeman High School during this difficult time,
• A thank you to Mandi Lenaburg and DeeEtta Pullar for a smooth start for staff in the 2017-2018 school
year.
• Congratulations to Karen Sluss on 23 years of service with Family Community Services. She will be
missed!
• Fisher Elementary Open House was a genuinely great experience with families of the schools and the
Lynden community.
• Bernice Vossbeck Back-to-School event was a success, full of fun events!
3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• August 10, 2017
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2017-18 General Fund $95,482.43 Warrants 45231 – 45248 dated August 15, 2017
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $3,294.72 Warrants 45249 – 45259 dated August 15, 2017
• 2016-17 General Fund $85,81.18 Warrants 45260 – 45330 dated August 15, 2017
• 2016-17 Capital Projects $4,148,721.86 Warrants 45331 – 45343 dated August 15, 2017
• 2016-17 ASB Fund $304.14 Warrants 45344 – 45344 dated August 15, 2017
• 2016-17 General Fund $236,638.41 Warrants 45377 – 45435 dated August 31, 2017
• 2016-17 Capital Projects $43,381.89 Warrants 45436 – 45442 dated August 31, 2017
• 2016-17 ASB Fund $19.74 Warrants 45433 – 45433 dated August 31, 2017
• 2017-18 General Fund $98,473.24 Warrants 45444 – 45477 dated August 31, 2017
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $215.74 Warrants 45377 – 45435 dated August 31, 2017

• 2016-17 General Fund $10,344.31 Warrants 45479 – 45479 dated August 31, 2017
• 2016-17 GF ACH $2,802.84 Warrants 16170046 - 161700494 dated August 31, 2017
• Payroll Direct Deposits $1,592,574.70 dated August 31, 2017
• Payroll Vendor Warrants $811,803.44 Warrants 45345 – 45376 dated August 31, 2017
• Personnel Action Items – September 14, 2017
• Overnight Trip Request
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Steve Jilk. Motion carried by voice vote of 2 to
1.
5. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
6. Student Presentation
The attending Lynden High School Associated Student Body (ASB) representatives introduced themselves;
Natalie Amos, Executive President; Eli Gripp, Executive Representative; Brea VanDalen, Activities Coordinator.
The students spoke about the activities they are planning for students during the 2017-2018 school year, they
are incorporating the “All In” theme and working on school spirit and how to support each student. The Board
and audience asked about the planned activities and how it is incorporating to support programs and students.
The ASB students have been invited back to the May Board Meeting to follow-up on their experiences.
7. Reports
• Superintendent
Construction Financial Tracking
Jim Frey provided a copy of the financial tracking dashboard for both Fisher Elementary and Lynden
Middle School. Jim explained that this is used to monitor our contingency for each project and keep
track of change order expenditures and additional scope of work.
•

Teaching and Learning
Elizabeth Hamming shared the 2017-2018 Professional Development activities that are developed to
support on-going work and implementing previous trainings in the areas of content alignment and
depth, instructional strategies, and assessment for learning. Elizabeth spoke about school teams and
principals and the plans of their focus.

•

Finance and Operations
Enrollment and Budget Implications
Jim Frey provided the enrollment count for the 2017-2018 school year and what actions will be taken to
adjust the budget. Jim introduced a budget balancing plan.
Budget Update - July
Patti Fairbanks provided information on the July budget review containing a summary of financial
status, enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.

8. Board Member Vacancy
Jim Frey shared the letter of resignation from Director Dominic Shiu. Jim and the Board expressed their
appreciation for his years of service and commitment to the Lynden School District and community. Jim
reviewed the timeline to fill the Director position. The Board requested to amend the timeline of filling
the vacancy
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the resignation of Director Shiu seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice
vote.

9. Budget Workshop
Board Meeting Calendar and Committees
The Board reviewed the 2017-2018 School Board Meeting calendar and discussed which committees
they will serve on for the upcoming school year. The Board will discuss individual school engagement
and committee service at a future meeting.
Sale of Real Property
Jim Frey explained the process in order to move ahead with the sale of Glenning Street property and the
future sale of property behind the current middle school. The Board discussed the possibility of selling
the properties and the next steps to complete the process.
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the advertising of selling the Glenning Street property seconded by Kelli Kettels.
Motion carried by voice vote.

10. Action Items
Learning Assistance Program (LAP) Funds
Tim Metz provided background on LAP funds used to support the Family Community Services program,
Readiness to Learn (RTL). Tim informed the Board that in order to receive state allocated funds, the
Board needs to review and approve the program.
Kevin Burke motioned to approve LAP seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
State Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program (STBIP) Grant
David VanderYacht informed the Board that funds from the STBIP Grant are used for staffing, support,
materials, and professional development to support English Language Learners (ELL).
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the STBIP Grant seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
Employee Contracts
The Board reviewed changes to the PSE and LEA contracts as a result of negotiations during the 20162017 school year in order to approve the formal contracts.
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the PSE and LEA contracts seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice
vote.
11. Policy
None at this meeting.
12. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:35 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
September 14, 2017
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Hagedorn, Carol
Davis, Julie
Phillips, Heather

Location
LA
Isom
BVE

Meyer, Lisa

Isom

Caldarella, Tausha

Fisher

Position
Teacher
Sped Teacher
PE and Music
Teacher
Music Teacher

FTE
.10
1.0
.60

Effective
17.18 SY
17.18 SY
8.30 – 6.12.18

.40

8.30 – 6.12.18

PE and Music
Teacher

.40

8.20 – 6.12.18

FTE
.20

Effective
17.18 SY Only

Comments
Spanish
Replaces Donner
Non Continuing –
leave replacement
Non Continuing –
leave replacement
Non Continuing –
Leave Replacement

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Smit, Lona

Location
LMS

Position
Health
Teacher

Comments
Teach health class
during prep each day

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Bass, Ruby

Location
Transp

Position
Bus Driver

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
8.30.17

Comments
Replaces MacSwan

Mather, Douglas
Tiesinga, Monica
Roberts, Marge
Roberts, Marge

Transp
Transp
BVE
LHS

Bus Driver
Bus Driver
Cook’s Helper
Cook’s Helper

4.83
3.5
2.75
2.50

8.30.17
8.30.17
8.29.17
8.29 – 6.12.18

Replaces Martin
Replaces Howell
Replaces Stahlecker
Leave replacement
for Hanson

Mather, Megan
Boies, Kelly
Visser, Sheila
Blankers, Alicia
Holguin, Claudia
Olney, Jessica
Willis, Carla

Isom
Isom
Fisher
LHS
LMS
BVE

6.0
4.0
3.0
4.0
6.0
1.5
6.0

8.30.17
8.30.17
8.30.17
10.2.17
8.30.17
8.30.17
9.11.17

Miner, Mackenzie

CT

7.5

8.31 – 6.12.18

Stevenson, Peter
Ortega, Maria

Transp
Isom

Para Ed 3
Secretary 2
Noon Supv
Secretary 2
Para Ed 2
Noon Supv
Family Community
Services Coordinator
Certified Nurse
Assistant
Bus Driver
Para Ed 2

5.0
4.0

10.2.17
9.11.17

New Position
Replaces Vopnford
Replaces Gardner
Replaces Ripollone

New position –
student specific
Replaces Banks

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Kope, Lea
Iaconetti, Barbara

Location
LA
CBC

Position
Para Educator
Para Educator

Hrs.
6.0
6.0

Effective
17.18 SY
17.18 SY

Vopnford, Megan

Fisher

Para Educator

6.0

17.18 SY

Allison, Lori Jo
Arneson, Trent

Fisher
LMS

Para Educator
Custodian

6.0
8.0

17.18 SY
17.18 SY

1

Comments
Increase in hours
Reduction in hours –
working Tues - Fri
Formerly a noon supv,
now Replacing St
Lawrence
Replaces Strid
Increase in hours

Erickson, Lisa

LMS

Para 2

5.0

17.18 SY

Weeks, Marilyn
Petersen, Jill
Marsh, Diane
Barile, Patricia
Stauffer, Tara

BVE
District
LHS
LHS
Fisher

Secretary 2
Mail Carrier
Secretary 4
Para Ed 3
Head Cook 1

4.0
1.25
8.0
6.0
5.25

17.18 SY
17.18 SY
10.2.17
17.18 SY
17.17 SY

Stauffer, Kesley

Fisher

Para Ed 1

5.0

9.11.17

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
Appx 1.10 –
2.20.18

Position
Para Ed

Hrs.
5.0

Effective
17.18 SY

Increase 1 hour per day,
non continuing. Student
specific.
Replaces Hanson
Replaces Hilt
2 hour increase
.50 increase due to
master schedule change
Resigns Para and Noon
at Isom to transfer to
Fisher

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Brandvold, Tamara

Location
LHS

Comments
Maternity Leave

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Fraser, Cheryl

Location
BVE

Comments
Personal Leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
3.0

Effective
8.7.17

Comments
Resignation

8.0

9.29.17

Retirement

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Stahlecker, Karen

Location
BVE

Hilt, Teri

LHS

Position
Cook’s
Helper
Secretary

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Gatterman, Steve
Klusmire, Newton
Petersen, Eric
Wittenberg, Jordan
Vis, Zachary
Norman, Jarid

Location
LMS
LHS
LMS
LHS
LHS
LMS

Position
Football Coach
Mentor/Advisor
Football Coach
Asst Football Coach
Asst Football Coach
Athletic Assistant

Effective
8.28.17
17.18 SY
8.28.17
8.16.17
8.16.17
8.28.17

Comments
Replaces VanDalen
Shared position .50 FTE
Shared position .50 FTE
Cross Country

Supplemental Resignations
Name
VanDalen, Blake
Bogues, Jody

Location
LHS
LHS

Position
Mentor/Advisor
Concessions
Coordinator

Effective
17.18 SY
17.18 SY

Comments
Resignation
Resignation

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

