DRAFT MINUTES OF THE SCHOOL BOARD SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 16, 2017
1.0
1.1
1.2

2.0
2.1

2.2

2.3
2.4

2.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
August 16, 2017 – Happy Valley Elementary School, 1041 24th St., Bellingham, WA
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Douglas Benjamin called the meeting to order at 1:05 p.m. Present: Directors
Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson, Steven Smith, and
Superintendent Greg Baker.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS/DISCUSSION
Visioning and the Bellingham Promise: General discussion, with agreement to create a committee
to determine next steps. Ms. Diaz Hackler and Ms. Bashaw volunteered to be part of the
committee and to give the board an update on progress in October 2017.
2017-18 Annual Board Calendar: General review and discussion of the draft board meeting
calendar, including regular meetings, linkages, study sessions, school visits, and timing of policy
governance reports. Approval of the calendar will be an agenda item at the August 24 regular
meeting.
WSSDA Board Self-Assessment Model: The directors shared ideas on how to complete an annual
board assessment and plan for improvement.
School Bonds: The directors discussed the board’s role in initiating bonds under the policy
governance model and considered incorporating relevant verbiage into an Executive Limitations
policy. Dr. Smith and Mr. Benjamin will work together on a draft and will report back to the
board at a future meeting date.
Board Handbook: Suggested revisions will be a discussion item at a future board meeting.

2.6

OTHER DISCUSSION ITEMS
The directors discussed board adoptions of schools, responsibilities relating to the WSSDA
Legislative Representative position, and they heard an update from Dr. Baker on the 2017-18
budget, facilities, and labor negotiations.

3.1

Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 4:35 p.m.

_____________________________________
Douglas Benjamin, School Board President
Attest:
_____________________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ______________

