DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 6, 2017
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
July 6, 2017 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Douglas Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience: n/a
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
 2017-18 Budget Update: Dr. Baker and the administrative team are still analyzing
the recently approved state budget. Representatives of OSPI, the ESDs, and school
districts will need a few weeks to fully understand the bill and its implications. Dr.
Baker highlighted the impacts of the legislature’s action on key district budget items.
He said the levy cliff is delayed until calendar year 2018, allowing our district to
collect voter-approved Maintenance and Operations levy monies this coming year.
The district’s 2017-18 proposed budget will be presented to the board for approval in
early August.
CONSENT ITEMS: Ms. Bashaw made a motion, seconded by Ms. Diaz Hackler, to
approve the following consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of the June 6, 2017 board visit and the June 20, 2017 regular
meeting
Approval of Investments - June 2017
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - May 2017 (revised)
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - June 2017
Resolution 17-17, Bond Issuance and Sale
Resolution 18-17, Amending Resolution 14-13
Spokane Public Schools (#1617-121)
Rebound of Whatcom County Ray of Hope Camp (#1617-137)
Catholic Community Services - Villa Santa Fe (#1617-138)
YMCA Summer Camps (#1617-148)
WWU Wade King Recreation Center - High School Swim Practice (#1718-004A)

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2017 Regular School Board Meeting
Page 2 of 3

2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
3.0
3.1

Northwest Career and Technical Academy - member districts amending agreements
(#1617-010 and 1718-019)
Northwest Career and Technical Academy - participating districts annual
agreement (#1718-020)
City of Bellingham Arne Hanna (#1718-021)
Personal Services Contracts
Personnel Recommendations
BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-6 – Academic Standards and Practices
The June 20, 2017 consent agenda included a monitoring report on EL-6, Academic
Standards and Practices. In keeping with Policy Governance, the board members
discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance with the policy and whether any
policy revisions are needed. Following discussion, Ms. Diaz Hackler made a motion,
seconded by Dr. Smith, to approve the following changes to the policy. Motion carried
with 4 affirmative votes and 1 opposed.
 {First paragraph}: The superintendent, in implementing academic standards and
practices, shall not fail to appropriately involve stakeholder groups, timely
communicate material changes, and employ current best practices.
 d. Provide an affirmative (or negative) statement the following actions have been
taken:
i.
Involve appropriate stakeholder groups in substantive academic
standards and practice decisions;
ii.
Provide appropriate access and utilization of electronically delivered
curriculum, materials and instruction;
iii.
A periodic systematic review of academic content, standards, curriculum,
materials, and instruction, involving appropriate stakeholders, has taken
place to ensure continuous improvement and adherence to best practices.
 Monitoring Frequency: Annually in March
See Attachments A and B for a summary of board responses to the monitoring report and
the revised policy.
Additionally, following discussion, Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw,
to delete the reference to the month in the Monitoring Frequency reference on all EL
policies.

4.0
4.1
4.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
Annual Board Agenda – updated - General review
School Board Directors’ Reports – General discussion
 Ms. Diaz Hackler recently visited the Sportsplex to observe the process for free lunch
distribution. About a dozen summer camp participants were taking advantage of the
lunch program on the day she visited.

5.0

NEW BUSINESS – The directors briefly discussed the process and timing for turning in
responses to monitoring reports. This will be an agenda item at the Aug. 16 board retreat.

Draft Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2017 Regular School Board Meeting
Page 3 of 3

6.0
6.1
6.2

6.3

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting – Dr. Smith assessed the meeting with an overall rating
of 2 – 3 (Satisfactory/Good)
Tour New Options High School – At 6:59 p.m., the meeting recessed briefly and
resumed at the new Options High School, where the board members participated in a tour
of the building and site.
Adjournment: 7:50 p.m.

___________________________________
Douglas Benjamin, School Board President
Attest:

______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

Minutes approved: ________________

