June 20, 2022
School Board Special Meeting
Minutes
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA
5:45 P.M.

1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 5:45 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were CJ Costanti, David Vis, and
Tonya Hickman.
2. School Board Candidate Interviews
The Lynden School Board of Directors held interviews with ten (10) applicants for the School Board of
Directors for Position No. 2 and Position No. 5.
3. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:15 P.M.
4. Executive Session (45 minutes)
Executive Session began at 8:16 P.M to discuss School Board Candidate qualifications.
Executive Session - Extension
Executive Session was extended an additional 30 minutes to 9:30 P.M. and announced to the
audience.
Executive Session - Extension
Executive Session was extended an additional 10 minutes to 9:40 P.M. and announced to the
audience.
Executive Session - Extension
Executive Session was extended an additional 10 minutes to 9:50 P.M. and announced to the
audience.
5. Adjourn Executive Session
Executive Session adjourned at 9:52 P.M.

6. Open Meeting
Open meeting began at 9:57 P.M.
The Lynden School District Board of Directors announced the newly appointed School Board of Director
members:
Cindy Petersen, Position No. 2 (replacing Brian Johnson)

Tonya Hickman motioned to appoint Cindy Petersen to Position No. 2 seconded by David Vis. Motion
carried by voice vote.
Ken Owsley, Position No. 5 (replacing Kelli Kettels)

Tonya Hickman motioned to appoint Ken Owsley to Position No. 5 seconded by David Vis. Motion carried
by voice vote.
7. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 10:00 P.M.

Mike Stromme
Interim Superintendent

CJ Costanti
President

