May 12, 2022
School Board Meeting
Minutes
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA
or
Via Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:01 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Brian Johson, CJ Costanti, Kelli
Kettels, David Vis, and Tonya Hickman. Student Director, Grace Potter was absent and excused.
A motion was made to amend the Personnel Action Items to include Vince Riccobene hired as the LMS
Principal.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• April 28, 2022 – Board Meeting
David Vis motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
3. Consent Agenda
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

2021-22 General Fund $610,697.60 Warrants 163324- 163422 dated April 29, 2022
2021-22 ASB Fund $14,637.92 Warrants 163423 – 163444 dated April 29, 2022
Transportation Fund $142,390.52 Warrant 163445 – 163445 dated April 29, 2022
2021-22 ACH General Fund $2,075.06 Warrants 212200280 - 212200290 dated April 29, 2022
2021-22 ACH ASB Fund $703.35 Warrants 212200291 – 212200297 dated April 29, 2022
Personnel Action Items 5.12.22
Donations 5.12.22

CJ Costanti motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice
vote.
4. Information from the Audience
Nancy Ruhl congratulated David VanderYacht on his new assignment as Superintendent. Nancy
spoke of the progress in alliance of curriculum and interventions and encouraged continuation to
strengthen curriculum related to learning disabilities.

5. Reports
Teaching and Learning
• K-5 Curriculum Presentation
Julie van Wijk, Teaching and Learning Director gave a presentation about the proposed K-5
curriculum that was reviewed by staff, families and community members and the Instructional
Materials Committee (IMC) members. Representatives of Amplify, the curriculum material
proposed for adoption, were present to answer questions. Julie thanked all those that reviewed
the curriculum and provided feedback, and thanked her assistant, Kelly Hoekstra for organizing
and supporting this important process.
6. Action Items
• K-5 ELA Curriculum Adoption
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the K-5 ELA Curriculum seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice
vote.
• Human Geography AP Course
Tonya Hickman motioned to approve the Human Geography AP curriculum seconded by CJ Costanti.
Motion carried by voice vote.
• K-5 Curriculum Contract - Amplify
Tonya Hickman motioned to approve the K-5 Curriculum Agreement with Amplify seconded by Kelli
Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
6. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:13 P.M.

David VanderYacht
Assistant Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

