DRAFT MINUTES OF THE STUDENT ROUNDTABLE SPECIAL MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 1, 2023 1-2 p.m.
Linkage Attendees:
• Current and former GRADS (Graduation, Realty and Dual-role Skills) students
from Options and Squalicum High Schools
• Members of the former GRADS advisory group
• Directors present: Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler
(President), Jenn Mason and Katie Rose.
• Superintendent of Bellingham Public Schools Greg Baker
• District Leadership and Staff: Executive Director Jackie Brawley; Deputy
Superintendent Mike Copland; Assistant Superintendent Jay Jordan; Executive
Director Kurt Gazow; Executive Director Isabel Meaker; Executive Director Ari
Feeney; Assistant Superintendent Matt Whitten; Chief Financial Officer Kathryn
Weilage; Options STEM teacher Michelle Wilhelm; Assistant Director of Teaching and
Learning Debbie Haney; Options Principal Katie Jones; Executive Administrative
Assistant Sheri O’Day (notetaker).
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions: School Board President Camille Diaz
Hackler called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m. Superintendent Greg Baker welcomed
attendees and invited all to introduce themselves.
Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Student Roundtable: Dr. Baker thanked everyone
for taking the time to be here this afternoon. He shared that when he became
superintendent in 2010, the GRADS program was in a building behind Alderwood
Elementary School. The program later moved to Squalicum High School, and eventually
additional GRADS program locations were added to Sehome and Options high schools.
Having locations at or near each high school allows students to continue attending classes
at their neighborhood school.
Student roundtables give the school board an opportunity to strengthen the connection
with our students, and the school board is excited to hear what students and former
students have to say about their experiences.
Questions for Current and Former GRADS Students: Ms. Wilhelm outlined services
that students in the GRADS program receive while they also attend their high school
classes. There are many community partners who help to support teen parents and their
families, and GRADS staff can help to bridge the gap by helping connect students to

community partners. This is the only program of its kind north of Everett, and any
pregnant or parenting student in Whatcom County up to the age of 21 is eligible to
receive GRADS support.
Ms. Wilhelm facilitated a discussion and student comments are below each question
asked.
How has GRADS supported you? Or not?
• The most important impact has been the connection and friendships with other
students experiencing similar circumstances, as well as having additional trusted
adults to go to for guidance.
• I was worried about being judged by others. Being a part of GRADS has eased
those worries and increased my self-confidence. It is a safe environment.
• It feels like another home.
• The support from other teen parents has been very helpful.
• I have received help with housing as well as parenting support.
In looking at The Bellingham Promise, what stands out for you as important?
• I like that student engagement involves the whole family.
• Diversity and inclusion are important, so students are not excluded due to their
differences.
• Every kid is important no matter what they are going through.
How did or is GRADS supporting your parenting goals?
• Having trusted adults provide childcare makes it possible for teen parents to
graduate.
• The childcare program helps prepare our children for Promise K.
• I don’t have to worry about my child while I’m attending classes.
• While we were home due to Covid, staff checked on us to be sure we stayed
connected.
How did or is GRADS supporting your current and/or future educational/
employment goals?
• The staff keeps me accountable and encourages me.
• I plan to go to nursing school and hope to eventually become a doctor.
• I’ve had help knowing what resources exist so that I can attend a cosmetology
program.
• If it were not for GRADS, I would have been depressed, sitting at home with two
babies.
• I like that I’ve been able to keep in touch with other GRADS parents and staff
after graduation.
• After experiencing a traumatic event, I was able to share what I had experienced
with trusted adults who helped me to find a different place to live.
• We all help each other as we learn to be parents and adults.

2

What ideas do you have that GRADS might incorporate to better support you and
your child towards your future goals?
• Continue the GRADS program for future students.
• Outreach to be sure other students who are not aware of the program might be
able to access it.
• My home/hospital tutor was so helpful, making sure I was doing what was
necessary to continue in school. Any person who needs it should have access to a
home/hospital tutor.
• Last year there was a GRADS advocate who helped to keep us connected to nonGRADS peers. It helped to know what was going on in the school, and it would
be good to have that available again.
What are your current hopes and dreams for your child(ren)?
• Don’t live for others and do what makes you happy.
• To be happy and know I’m always in her corner. I’m her mom first, but no matter
what I’ll also be her friend.
• I plan to make a lot of boundaries.
• I want my child to be able to come to me for advice and to know they’ll always
have their mom with them.
• I want her to know she was not a mistake.
• Follow your dreams and be confident.
• I will be her safe place, even in hard times.
Dr. Baker asked if any of the school board members had questions or comments:
•
•
•
•

•

Mr. Benjamin thanked the students and told them they were brave to be here
today and share their thoughts with the board. He can tell they are already great
parents.
Ms. Diaz Hackler shared that her mother had been a teen parent. It felt like she
was listening to her mom from when she was a young mother.
Ms. Bashaw thanked the students for taking the time to meet with the board and
confirming the importance of this program. It’s important for the community to
know how important it is so other students who need it can receive support.
Ms. Rose asked the students to share what they wish people knew about the
program and what they are going through. The students said teen parenting is not
all fun; Options High School is a diverse and safe space; it’s hard enough to be a
student, and adding a child makes it harder.
Ms. Mason told the students that their kids are lucky to have them as parents. She
wishes that today’s presentation could be shared with other communities so they
could see what a difference it makes for teen parents. She also appreciated how
powerful and vulnerable the students were today.

Dr. Baker thanked everyone for being here this afternoon. Student voice is important and
helps the school board and district determine how to make things better. We’re all proud

3

of those of you who have earned your diploma, as well as those who are in the process of
earning it.
Ms. Diaz Hackler also thanked everyone for attending and adjourned the meeting at 1:52
p.m.
Approved:

Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ____________

4

