January 25, 2018
School Board Work Session
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. Board members in attendance were Kevin Burke, Brian Johnson, Kelli Kettels,
and CJ Costanti. Board member Steve Jilk was absent and excused. Student Directors Rubia Orellana and Leslie
Strandgard were absent and excused.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• December 12, 2017
• January 11, 2018
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2017-18 General Fund $231,693.74 Warrants 46842 – 46926 dated January 16, 2018
• 2017-18 Capital Projects $1,533,326.34 Warrants 46927 – 46932 dated January 16, 2018
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $12,230.56 Warrants 46933 – 46947 dated January 16, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH General Fund $62,176.42 Warrants 171800179 – 171800021 dated January 16, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH ASB Fund $448.39 Warrants 171800202 – 171800207 dated January 16, 2018
• Personnel Action Items 1.25.18
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - December
The Board reviewed information on the budget for December containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
6. Adjourn Meeting to go into Board Work Session
Meeting adjourned at 6:35 P.M.
7. Board Work Session
• Physical Education Facility
Lynden High School P.E. Teacher and Football Coach, Blake VanDalen, along with Lynden High School
Counselor and Volleyball Coach, Chris Elsner spoke to the Board about the prospect of updating the weight
room, which was constructed in 1993. Blake and Chris shared the history of the weight room facility and a
plan including fundraising for equipment and design layout that would accommodate students in a safe and
orderly environment.
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the fundraising for weight room equipment seconded by Brian Johnson. Motion
carried by voice vote.

•

Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) Overview
Lynden High School Principal, Ian Freeman and Assistant Principal, Michelle Nilsen spoke about the AVID
program as a strategy to ensure all students are college, career and citizenship ready. They shared that AVID
is a global non-profit organization that services kindergarten through higher education bringing researchedbased curriculum and strategies to students each day that develop critical thinking, literacy, and math skills
across all content areas. They shared survey data for student, parent and teacher expectations of high school
and beyond readiness.

•

Measures of Success
Jim Frey provided data that tracks the measures of success for college and career readiness. Jim informed
the Board the data can be used to monitor progress and inform strategies and actions to make decisions on
priorities and areas of focus.

Teaching and Learning
• Health Committee Update
Elizabeth Hamming provided an update on the District Health Committee and their review of K-5 and 9-12
grade health curriculum and supplemental materials. Elizabeth shared the timeline for the committee to
meet and provide recommendations to the Instructional Materials Committee and then board approval.
•

Deeper Learning
Elizabeth Hamming shared about work a few staff are doing to investigate and develop concept based
lessons.
.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Kevin Burke
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
January 25, 2018

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Cooper, Angelique

Location
Isom

Position
Para Ed 3

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
1.8 – 6.12.19

Nava Abrego,
Maria

Fisher

Para Ed 2

6.0

1.22 – 5.31.18

Comments
Leave replacement
Skaggs
Early K Program

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Herrick, Steven

Location
LHS

Position
Music
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
6.12.18

Comments
Retirement

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Skinner, Matthew

Location
LHS

Position
Co Boys Head Golf
Coach

Effective
2.26.18

Comments
Shared position w/Weg

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

