May 24, 2018
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31 P.M. Board members in attendance were Kevin Burke, Steve Jilk, Kelli Kettels and
CJ Costanti. Board Member Brian Johnson was absent and excused. Student Directors Rubia Orellana and Leslie
Strandgard were present.
2. Good of the Order
• The Board of Directors welcomed members of the Lynden Masonic Lodge who presented Lynden High
School teacher, Jill Conner with the Educator of the Year Award.
• Jim Frey and the Board recognized our Student Directors, Rubia Orellana and Leslie Strandgard and
thanked them for a great year of service on the Board of Directors. Board President, Kevin Burke
announced the incoming 2018-2019 Student Board of Directors, Cynthia Torres and Ruby
VanderHaak.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• May 10, 2018
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2017-18 General Fund $498,672.42 Warrants 48112 – 48230 dated May 15, 2018
• 2017-18 Capital Projects $81,987.62 Warrants 48231 – 48236 dated May 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $15,513.99 Warrants 48237 – 48253 dated May 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH General Fund $2,422.47 Warrants 171800352 – 171800367 dated May 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH ASB Fund $1,226.26 Warrants 171800368 – 171800375 dated May 15, 2018
• Personnel Action Items 5.24.18
• Overnight Trip Request 5.24.18
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Action Items
• Interlocal Agreements – CWU and NWRDC
Jim Frey informed the Board on the college in the classroom offering from Central Washington University
(CWU).
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the CWU Agreement seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
Jim Frey informed the Board on the essential needs to partner with the Northwest Regional Data Center
to provide support to students and staff.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the NWRDC Agreement seconded by Steve Jilk. Motion carried by voice vote.

• Resolution No. 06-18 – Greenhouse Surplus
Steve Jilk motioned to approve Resolution No. 06-18 seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
• Resolution No. 07-18 – WIAA Membership
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve Resolution No. 07-18 seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
6. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - April
The Board reviewed information on the budget for April containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
7. Adjourn Meeting to go into Board Work Session
Meeting adjourned at 7:05 P.M.
8. Board Work Session
• School Start Times
Jim Frey provided articles about the effects of a later school start time for teens and the pros and cons of
adjusting the start time. The Board discussed considerations and need for additional information.
•

School Safety
Jim Frey informed the Board of plans for increasing school safety and security. Elements discussed were the
possibility of adding a School Resource Officer (SRO) and how to engage our current resources to enhance
and ensure safe campuses. Jim gave a summary of on-going conversations with community first
responders. David VanderYacht summarized recent input from the Safety Committee regarding school
security equipment and a time-line for school security upgrades.

8. Executive Session (30 minutes)
Executive Session began at 8:15 P.M.
•

Superintendent Evaluation
The Board of Directors agreed that the Superintendent Evaluation would be done at the June meeting.

•

Negotiations
Jim Frey and David VanderYacht informed the Board about contract negotiation meetings with Lynden
Education Association (LEA) and Lynden Classified Employees Association (LCEA).

Executive Session adjourned at 8:35 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Kevin Burke
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
May 24, 2018

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Jones, Charity
Skaggs, Melissa
Prink, Benjamin

Location
Fisher
LMS
LMS

Position
3rd Grade Teacher
Sped Teacher
Sped Teacher

FTE
1.0
1.0
1.0

Effective
18.19 SY
18.19 SY
18.19 SY

Comments
Ross
Replaces Arneson
New position

FTE
.80

Effective
18.19 SY

Comments
Resignation of .20 FTE

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
18.19 SY

Comments
Increase in hours to
6.0 replacing Skaggs

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Leland, Mia

Location
Lynden
Academy

Position
Teacher

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Williams, Sara

Location
Isom

Position
Para Ed 3

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Crabtree, Melissa

Location
Isom

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
18.19 SY

Vandenberg, Scott

Lynden
Academy

Principal/Teacher

1.0

5.15 – 6.15.18

1

Comments
Unpaid Maternity
Leave
Medical Leave

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Hansen-Quine, Maria

Location
Fisher

Position
Counselor

FTE
1.0

Effective
6.12.18

Comments
Resignation

Effective
6.12.18

Comments
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Ortega, Claudia

Location
LMS

Position
Para Ed 2

Hrs.
6.0

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Elsner, Mike
Heppner, Brian

Location
LMS
LMS

Position
Football Coach
Football Coach

Effective
18.19 SY
18.19 SY

Comments
Replaces White
Replaces Victor

Supplemental Resignations
Name
Victor, Kent

Location
LMS

Position
Football Coach

Effective
5.8.18

Comments
Resignation

White, Cory

LMS

Football Coach

5.8.18

Resignation

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

