June 28, 2018
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. Board members in attendance were Kevin Burke, Steve Jilk, Kelli Kettels and
CJ Costanti. Board Member Brian Johnson was absent and excused. Student Directors Ruby VanderHaak and
Cynthia Torres were absent and excused.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• June 14, 2018
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2017-18 General Fund $241,698.84 Warrants 48444 – 48553 dated June 15, 2018
• 2017-18 Capital Projects $70,211.78 Warrants 48554 – 48563 dated June 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ASB Fund $25,132.53 Warrants 48564 – 48547 dated June 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH General Fund $7,319.07 Warrants 171800409 – 171800447 dated June 15, 2018
• 2017-18 ACH ASB Fund $7,762.84 Warrants 171800448 – 171800470 dated June 15, 2018
• Personnel Action Items 5.24.18
• Overnight Trip Request 5.24.18
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - May
The Board reviewed information on the budget for May containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
6. Action Items
• Waterline Easements – Fisher Elementary and Lynden Middle School
Information on the Waterline Easements will be provided and discussed at the meeting in July.
•

Land Exchange Agreement with City of Lynden
The Board discussed the agreement that would exchange land at the middle school. This will satisfy the
needs of the city for a trail and the school districts needs to utilize the road between Judson Hall and the
gymnasium. The Board discussed the need to add contingent language of “The City shall restore the City
Property to its original state after removal of the appurtenances. This shall be completed on or before
December 31, 2019” from a previous version of the agreement.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the Land Exchange Agreement with changes as requested seconded by CJ Costanti.
Motion carried by voice vote.

•

Resolution No. 08-18 – Administrator Agreement
Jim Frey explained the need for the resolution which will allow the option to further review administrative
contracts after July 1st if needed.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve Resolution No. 08-18 seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
•

Superintendent Contract
Kevin Burke, Board President summarized the context of the contract and the Board agreed to approve a
new 3 year contract.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the Superintendent Contract seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
7. Adjourn Meeting to go into Board Work Session
Meeting adjourned at 6:48 P.M.
8. Board Work Session
• Facility Project Priorities
David VanderYacht shared recommendations from Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office pertaining to school
facility safety and security. David and Reed Gillig, Maintenance Supervisor provided the status of current
projects and what will be completed in the future to upgrade school facilities with security equipment and
what facility maintenance projects have been completed and what are future priorities.
•

School Board Meeting Calendar and Committees
The Board reviewed the 2018-2019 School Board Meeting Calendar and discussed who will serve on the
School Board Committees; Finance, Curriculum and P.D., Evaluation, Facilities and Planning, and
Communications.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Kevin Burke
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
June 28, 2018
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Ellingboe, Alyssa
Lindstrom, Katharine
Swanson, Theresa
Lambert, Reid

Location
LMS
Isom
LA
LMS

Position
SLP
Teacher – K
Teacher 6/7
ELA/SS Teacher

FTE
.80
1.0
.40
1.0

Effective
18.19 SY
18.19 SY
18.19 SY
18.19 SY

Jaquay, Cynthia

Isom

Teacher – 5th

1.0

8.27 – 6.13.18

Nosbusch, Karrie-Ann

Fisher

5th Grade

1.0

18.19 SY

Comments
New Position
Replaces Hoekstra
Replaces Clemmer who
moved to 8th Grade
Leave replacement
Crabtree
Replaces Miller

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Suddock, Jana
Vachon, Jennifer

Location
Fisher
Isom

Position
Teacher – LRC
Dean of Students

FTE
1.0
.80

Effective
18.19 SY
18.19 SY

Herwerden, Megan

Fisher

Dean/Intervention

1.0

18.19 SY

Wright, Michelle

BVE

PE/Music Teacher

.60

18.19 SY

Caldarella, Tausha

Fisher

Counselor

1.0

18.19 SY

Comments
Replaces Murry
Resigns .50
Intervention and adds
.30 Dean
.50 Dean/.50
Intervention
Resignation of .40 FTE
to move to PE/Music
Replaces Hansen
Quine

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Greenwald, Jason
Lafantasie, Kristin

Location
BVE
BVE

Position
Library Tech
Computer Tech

Hrs.
7.0
7.0

Effective
8.24.18
8.17 – 6.13.18

Williams, Jamie

BVE

Para Ed

3.0

18.19 SY

Comments
Replaces Fiebig
Leave replacement
Hildebrand

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Versteeg, Cindy

Location
BVE

Position
Para Ed

Hrs.
5.0

Effective
18.19 SY

VanWerven, Janet

CBC

Para Ed

3.0

18.19 SY

Moffat, Denise
Olney, Jessica

BVE
BVE

Para Ed
Noon Supv

6.0
2.0

18.19 SY
18.19 SY

1

Comments
Increase to 5 hrs a
day, replaces Fraser
Resignation of partial
hours
Replaces Brown
Increase in hours
replacing Versteeg

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Position

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Comments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Ruble, Kaela

Location
Fisher

Position
Intervention

FTE
.60

Effective
6.12.18

Comments
Resignation

Comments
Resignation of noon
supv hours only
Resignation
Resignation of cook’s
helper hours only

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Versteeg, Cindy

Location
BVE

Position
Noon Supv

Hrs.
2.0

Effective
6.12.18

Daley, Barbara
Tiesinga, Monica

LMS
Fisher

Noon Supv
Cook’s
Helper

1.83
2.25

6.12.18
6.12.18

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Velasquez, Alina
Karb, Deanna
Landis, Laura
McDonald, Pamela
Marlowe, Jody
Peetoom, Brittany
Prink, Benjamin
Roddy, Jodee
Dickson, Jill

Location
Isom
Fisher
Fisher
Fisher
LMS
LMS
LMS
Fisher
LHS

Lindstrom, Katharine
Anderson, Austin
Bovencamp, Bo
Heeringa, Jacob
VanderYacht, Brenna
Petersen, Steven
Minckler, Cole

LHS
District
District
District
District
District
District

Position
Teacher
Para Ed
Teacher
Para Ed
Para Ed
Para Ed
Teacher
Para Ed
Asst Coach – Tennis
Girls
Asst Cheer Coach
Summer Help
Summer Help
Summer Help
Summer Help
Summer Grounds
Summer Help

Effective
6.18 – 7.18.18
8.16 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.23.18
7.30 – 8.15.18
2.26.18

Comments
Summer School
ESY
ESY
ESY
ESY
ESY
ESY
ESY
Replaces Sahagian

8.13.18
6.13 – 8.29.18
6.13 – 8.29.18
6.13 – 8.29.18
6.13 – 8.29.18
6.18 – 8.29.18
6.18 – 8.29.18

Fall Cheer

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

