BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 28, 2013
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in special session March 28, 2013 in the Board
Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.

OPENING ITEMS
At 12:30 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Camille Hackler, Scott Stockburger, President Ken Gass,
Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry. Director Steve Smith was absent; having
notified the Board secretary that he had arranged to spend the day at an elementary school and
would be unable to attend.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
Audience
No audience presented.

CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of March 14, 2013 School Board Meeting.
Authorization to Call for Bids – Birchwood Elementary School
Action to call for bids on the construction of Birchwood Elementary School.
Contracts
Action on Interlocal and Interdistrict Agreements as submitted.
a) Interlocal Cooperative Agreement with Northwest Educational Service District 189 for
Whatcom Discovery.

School Board Minutes
March 28, 2013
Page 2 of 3
b) Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services between Ferndale School
District and Bellingham School District for Bellingham to provide services for one
student.
c) Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services between Ferndale School
District and Bellingham School District for Bellingham to provide services for one
student.
Application for School Emergency Closure
Action on filing a request with the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction to request a
waiver for one school day for Sehome High School for February 26, 2013 due to a power outage.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on out-of-state travel as submitted.
a) Sehome High School staff to co-facilitate a workshop through the Facundo Element
Organization on Deaf Education in Denver, Colorado, April 12–13, 2013. The staff
member has been asked to be involved in this workshop and expenses for travel will be
paid from the Perkins Grant and the Facundo Element Organization.
b) Administrative staff to attend the Advanced Placement (AP) Conference in Las Vegas,
Nevada, July 17–21, 2013. Expenses will be covered by the Department of Teaching and
Learning budget.
c) Administrative staff to attend the 2013 International Baccalaureate (IB) Conference of
the Americas in New Orleans, Louisiana, July 18–21, 2013. Expenses will be paid from
the Educational Options budget.
d) Administrative and certificated staff to attend the Advancement Via Individual
Determination (AVID) Summer Institute in San Diego, California, July 31–August 2,
2013. Expenses will be paid from the Educational Options budget.
e) Sehome High School staff to attend the AVID Summer Institute in San Diego, California,
July 31–August 2, 2013. Expenses will be paid from a combination of Bellingham
Administrators Organization (BAO), Professional Development, and Educational Options
budget.
Student Trips
Action on student trips as submitted.
a) Fairhaven Middle School Future Problem Solvers Team to attend the State Bowl
Competition at Warm Beach Camp in Stanwood, Washington, April 10–12, 2013. Costs
for this trip will be paid by a grant provided by the Bellingham School Foundation and
the Curriculum Department.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Scott Stockburger assessed the meeting. His overall assessment was commendable.

School Board Minutes
March 28, 2013
Page 3 of 3

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 12:35: p.m.

