February 26, 2019
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Kelli Kettels, CJ Costanti and
David Vis. Board member Brian Johnson was absent and excused. Student Directors Cynthia Torres and Ruby
VanderHaak were present.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• February 14, 2019
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2018-19 General Fund $262,905.67 Warrants 50787 – 50903 dated February 15, 2019
• 2018-19 Capital Projects $187,379.28 Warrants 50904 – 50908 dated February 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ASB Fund $11,849.69 Warrants 50909 – 50918 dated February 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH General Fund $1,385.80 Warrants 181900218 – 1819000228 dated February 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH ASB Fund $298.81 Warrants 181900229 – 181900235 dated February 15, 2019
• Personnel Action Items 2.26.19
David Vis motioned to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Glenning Street Property
• Glenning Street Property Update
Harlan Kredit, community member and spokesman for “Save Glenning Street” provided the Baard with an
update on conversations with the City of Lynden pertaining to preserving Glenning Street as an open space
or option for both an open space and residential area combined.
Mayor Korthuis spoke to the presentation by Mr. Kredit and relayed conversation with the City Council as
well as action of the City Council to meet Monday, March 4th to consider engaging with the School District
on an inter-government purchase of Glenning Street. Board member David Vis requested a motion to
authorize Superintendent Frey to enter into an agreement and negotiate a sale of property with the City of
Lynden. Board members did not second a motion, but agreed to table the action until the March 14th
School Board Meeting which will allow the City Council to hold a meeting on Monday, March 4th, 2019 with
clarification on intentions of the
David Vis motioned to table action on the surplus of Glenning Street seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by
voice vote.

9A. Board Work Session (Materials Distribution Policy moved up in the Agenda)
• Materials Distribution Policy
Mike Rorick of Porter Foster Rorick shared his thinking about the equitable distribution of materials to
students and families based on legal parameters and current practices from around the state. The Board
discussed the options of distributing materials. Further information on policy and procedure will be
brought to the Board for approval at a future meeting.
6. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - January
The board reviewed information on the budget for January containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
7. Action Items
• Weather Make Up Days
Jim Frey shared the options for the 2019 weather make up days. The Board agreed to the option which will
convert March 18th and May 26th to student days instead of a teacher work day, all late start Wednesdays,
beginning March 6th, will be converted to full student instructional days, and the last day of school will now
be June 14th.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the Weather Make Up Days seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice
vote.
•

School Calendar 2019-2020
The Board had requested that Jim Frey discuss further options for the 2019-2020 school year calendar with
the Lynden Education Association (LEA). Jim reported back with a summary of his discussions with LEA.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the 2019-2020 School Calendar seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice
vote.
•

Resolution No.04-19 – Designation of Authority to Sign Real-Estate Transactions
The Board can give authority to the Superintendent to sign all appropriate and approved real-estate
transactions on behalf of the Board.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve Resolution No. 04-19 seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
8. Meeting Adjourned
Meeting adjourned at 8:03 P.M.
9B. Board Work Session
• High School Science Requirements
Ian Freeman, Lynden High School Principal provided an overview of the changes to graduation
requirements, specific to new science standards. Ian explained that due to more rigorous expectations, the
high school will revise the curriculum to ensure they meet the new standards.
•

School Safety
Jim Frey updated the Board on safety measures that are being taken to ensure safety in our schools. Jim
provided information on coordination with local agencies and other community schools, grade-level
appropriate training drills, table top training for emergency responses, and environmental safety drills.
David VanderYacht spoke to the training of staff on option-based scenario responses.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
February 26, 2019

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Comments
Continued part time
leave replacement for
Davis
Return from leave, part
time

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Freeman, Justyn

Location
Isom

Position
Teacher

FTE
.50

Effective
1.22 – 6.13.19

Davis, Julie

Isom

Teacher

.50

1.22 – 6.13.19

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

FTE
1.0

Effective
4.1.19

Comments
Maternity Leave

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Voight, Katie

Location
BVE

Position
Teacher

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Clemmer, Brian
Barrios, Lynne

Location
LMS
LMS

Position
Head Coach Track
Asst Coach Track

Effective
3.25.19
3.25.19

Comments
Replaces Bomber
Replaces Victor

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

2

