Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Work Session
Lynden High School Library
1201 Bradley Rd,
Lynden, WA 98264
2/26/2019 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes 2.14.19

3. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Personnel Action Items 2.26.19
AP Payroll Board Certification Form - February 15, 2019

4. Information from the Audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual's
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive Session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

5. Glenning Street Property
Glenning Street Property Update

6. Finance and Operations
Budget Update - January

7. Action Items
Weather Make Up Days
School Calendar 2019-2020
Resolution No. 04-19 - Designation of Authority to Sign Real-Estate Transactions

8. Adjourn Meeting to go into Board Work Session
9. Board Work Session

(Action)

Materials Distribution Policy
High School Science Requirements
Safety Planning
Board Work Session Topics

