April 25, 2019
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, CJ Costanti and
David Vis. Director Kelli Kettels was absent and excused. Student Director Cynthia Torres was present and Ruby
VanderHaak was absent and excused.
The Agenda was amended to include an Overnight Trip request in the Consent Agenda
Brain Johnson motioned to amend the Agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• April 11, 2019
David Vis motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2018-19 General Fund $153,752.87Warrants 51373 – 51434 dated April 15, 2019
• 2018-19 Capital Projects $1,078.006 Warrants 51435 – 51435 dated April 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ASB Fund $8,888.32 Warrants 51436 – 51449 dated April 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH General Fund $1,608.97 Warrants 181900298 – 181900309 dated April 15, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH ASB Fund $24.00 Warrants 181900310 – 181900310 dated April 15, 2019
• Personnel Action Items 4.25.19
• Overnight Trip Request 4.25.19
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Finance and Operations
• Budget Update - March
The Board reviewed information from the budget for March containing a summary of financial status,
enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
6. Action Items
• Out of Endorsement Teaching Assignment
The Board reviewed WAC 181-82-110 for school district response and support of non-matched
endorsements to course assignment of teachers. The Board approved of the 3 non-matched endorsements.
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the Out of Endorsement assignments seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried
by voice vote.

7. Meeting Adjourned
Meeting adjourned at 6:41 P.M.
8. Board Work Session
• District Planning Committee Update
Jim Frey recognized and appreciated the discussions and recommendations that the District Planning
Committee discussed at their April 23rd meeting. The Board addressed the pros and cons of Impact Fees
and Jim explained the committee recommendations on an M&O/Technology Levy. Student Director,
Cynthia Torres provided information on the need of technology upgrades at the schools. The Board
discussed options for timelines of bonds to update the high school and plan for a future new elementary
school. It was recognized by the Board through the comments at the meeting that safety is being
successfully addressed both in building security and Social Emotional Learning (SEL). The Board addressed
recommendations of adding space to current common areas at existing school buildings.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
April 25, 2019

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Jaquay, Cynthia

Location
Isom

Olson, Hannah

Isom

Watson, David

BVE

Position
5th Grade
Teacher
5th Grade
Teacher
5th Grade
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
19.20 SY

Comments
Replaces Doering

1.0

19.20 SY

New Position

1.0

19.20 SY

Replaces Matheis

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
2.92

Effective
8.28 – 6.10.20

Comments
Leave replacement
for Russell

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Haehnel, Sonja

Location
CBC
Preschool

Position
Para Educator

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Russell, Julia

Location
PreSchool

Position
Para Ed

Hrs.
2.92

Effective
19.20 SY

Comments
1 year leave of absence

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

