July 11, 2019
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:32 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Kelli Kettels, CJ Costanti and
David Vis. Director Brian Johnson was absent and excused. Student Director Ruby VanderHaak was absent and
excused.
President, Steve Jilk requested to amend the Agenda to include the topic Salary Schedule in the Action Items and
hold Resolution No. 10-19 for a future meeting.
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve an amendment to the Agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
2. Good News
We want to give recognition to the coaches and volunteers that help with summer youth camps. They have built
programs that make a difference! Participation:









Football - 85
Soccer - 65
Volleyball - 130
Boys Basketball - 200
Girls Basketball - 55
Tennis - 30
Girls Wrestling - 60
TOTAL - 625 students participating!

3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 June 27, 2019
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2018-19 General Fund $232,199.72 Warrants 52117 - 52204 dated June 28, 2019
• 2018-19 Capital Projects $108,992.70 Warrants 52205 – 52207 dated June 28, 2019
• 2018-19 ASB Fund $7,085.06 Warrants 52208 – 52234 dated June 28, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH General Fund $5,113.33 Warrants 181900428 – 181900455 dated June 28, 2019
• 2018-19 ACH ASB Fund $917.50 Warrants 181900456 – 181900470 dated June 28, 2019

• Personnel Action Items 7.11.19
David Vis motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
5. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
6. Reports
Superintendent
 Superintendent End of Year Reflection
Jim Frey provided a reflection of the 2018-2019 school year based on the categories of College and Career
Ready Graduates; Family and Community Partnerships; Safe and Supportive Learning Environments;
Responsible Citizenship.
Teaching and Learning
Finance and Operations
 Budget Update 2019-2020
Patti Fairbanks described the work taking place to balance the budget and the modifications made in the
projected enrollment, the proposed adjusted 2020 levy amount and Federal Safety Net revenue. Work will
continue on the 2019-2020 budget for adoption in August. The Board appreciates the efforts of Patti
Fairbanks and Mandi Lenaburg on preparing the budget.
7. Budget Hearing
There were no comments from the audience.
8. Budget Hearing Adjourned
The Budget Hearing was adjourned at 7:23 P.M.
9. Board Workshop
 Final Acceptance of Completion of Lynden Middle School
David King, Principal of King Architecture provided a letter for recommendation of final acceptance of the
newly built Lynden Middle School. King Architecture also thanked the Lynden School District for the
opportunity to work on this project. This topic will be addressed at a future meeting.
10. Action Items
 Resolution No. 09-19 – 2018-2019 GF and ASB Fund Budget Extension
Increase the budget authority in the General Fund by $300,000. The increase will be offset with increased
revenue.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve Resolution No. 09-19 seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.




Resolution No 10-19 – Lynden Middle School Replacement Project as Complete
Certification the Lynden Middle School Replacement (N/L) project as complete. This Resolution will be
brought to the Board at a future meeting.

Salary Schedule
David VanderYacht shared the salary schedules for the non-represented employees and managers for the
Boards consideration. David explained the use of the Western Region’s Consumer Product Index (CPI) and
the adjustments proposed to provide the schedule.
David Vis motioned to approve the Salary Schedules seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.

11. Policy
 Second Reading
The Board reviewed the following policies as second reading and consideration for approval:
#3120 – Enrollment
#3200 – Student Right and Responsibilities
#3205 – Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited
#5281 – Disciplinary action and Discharge
#6020 – System of Funds and Accounts
Kelli Kettels motioned to approve these Policies seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
12. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 7:41 P.M.
13. Executive Session

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
July 11, 2019

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Maxwell, Stacey
McVicker, Desiree

Location
LHS
Fisher

Position
Sped Teacher
2nd Grade
Teacher

FTE
1.0
1.0

Effective
19.20 SY
19.20 SY

Comments
Replaces Brown
Leave replacement for
Caesar

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
7.0
8.0

Effective
19.20 SY
7.22.19

Comments
Replaces Greenwald
Replaces Lunde

Comments
Increase in hours due
to schedule change
Increase in hours due
to schedule change
Increase in hours due
to schedule change

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Rich, Victoria
Stanfill, Shane

Location
BVE
Transp

Position
Library Tech
Transportation
Supervisor

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Visser, Sheila

Location
Fisher

Position
Noon Supv

Hrs.
3.67

Effective
19.20 SY

Victor, Cheryl

Fisher

Noon Supv

3.67

19.20 SY

Spracklen, Geneva

Fisher

Noon Supv

3.67

19.20 SY

FTE

Effective

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

1

Comments

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Kroontje, Grant

Location
Transp

Position
Bus Driver

Hrs.
5.00

Effective
9.9 – 9.24.19

Comments
Unpaid leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Effective
7.2.19

Comments
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Hildebrand, Brittany

Location
BVE

Position
Computer
Lab
Specialist

Hrs.
7.0

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Dickson, Jill

Location
LHS

Position
Volleyball Asst Coach

Effective
19.20 SY

Lamp, Samantha

LHS

Volleyball Asst Coach

19.20 SY

Gallegos, Frankie

LHS

Asst Wrestling Coach

19.20 SY

Oostra, Daren

LHS

Asst Wrestling Coach

19.20 SY

Henderson, Hans
Grover, Samantha

LHS
LHS

Head Wrestling Coach
Dance Coach

19.20 SY
19.20 SY

Brossow, Melissa

Tech Dept

Summer Help

7.8 – 8.16.19

Comments
Will share position with
Lamp for one year
Will share position with
Dickson for one year
Shared position with
Oostra replacing
Henderson
Shared position with
Gallegos replacing
Henderson
Replaces Parson
New trial
extracurricular activity

Supplemental Resignations
Name
Dillard, David

Location
LMS

Position
Head Wrestling Coach

Effective
6.7.19

Comments
Resignation

Denniston, Dirk

LHS

Asst Boys Tennis
Coach

6.14.19

1 year leave of absence

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

