September 26, 2019
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Main Street Campus Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:30 P.M. Board members in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, Kelli Kettels, CJ
Costanti and David Vis. Student Directors Ruby VanderHaak and Riley Anderson were present.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 September 12, 2019
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
• 2018-19 & 19/20 General Fund $531,904.73 Warrants 52705 - 52823 dated September 16, 2019
• 2018-19 & 19/20 Capital Projects $56,202.02 Warrants 52824 – 52827 dated September 16, 2019
• 2018-19 & 19/20 ASB Fund $10,664.84 Warrants 52828 – 52841 dated September 16, 2019
• 2019-20 ACH General Fund $1,920.87 Warrants 192000001 – 192000012 dated September 16, 2019
• Personnel Action Items 9.26.19
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Finance and Operations
 Budget Update - August
Patti Fairbanks explained the process on the acceptance of the 2019-2020 budget from Office of
Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) and finalizing the 2019-2020 budget in The Board reviewed
information from the budget for August containing a summary of financial status, enrollment, general
fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
6. Board Work Session
 High School Counseling Program
The high school counselors, Christina Lynch, Chris Elsner, and Erin Schaeffer provided an overview of the
counseling program that consists of student and family events and opportunities
to engage with school staff throughout the year. They explained how they utilize the American School
Counselor Association model to focus on the whole child. Student Directors shared their experience with
the counseling program and how they appreciate the “open door” policy that the program promotes.



Student Performance Report
The Board reviewed 2018-2019 student data report cards provided by the Office of Superintendent of
Public Instruction (OSPI). The data report card consists of assessments, demographics, financial,
attendance, graduation, enrollment, and student growth both at the district level and school level.



Enrichment Levy
The Board discussed the enrichment levy (formerly M&O levy) amounts that will be on the February ballot.
Jim Frey shared budget calculations submitted to the state for our 4-year budget projection, along with
various levy collection amounts related to current budget deficit and program needs.



Capital Levy
The Board discussed the capital levy amounts for technology and facilities that will be on the February
ballot. Jim Frey shared options to structure the levy; A constant and projected rate with an increasing
amount or: The same amount with a decreasing rate.

8. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:45 P.M.
9. Executive Session

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
September 26, 2019

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
6.33
5.0

Effective
9.11.19 – 6.10.20
9.30.19

Comments

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

FTE
1.0

Effective
8.26 – 10.4.19

Comments
Medical Leave

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Miller, Mary
McCreary, William

Location
LMS
Transp

Position
Para Ed 1
Bus Driver

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Hutchins, Kristie

Location
Fisher

Position
Teacher

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
1

Name
Johnston, Glenda

Location
LHS

Position
Office
Personnel

Hrs.
8.0

Effective
8.22.19 – TBD

Comments
Medical Leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Effective
9.27.19

Comments
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Bonsen, Karla

Location
LMS

Position
OP2

Hrs.
8.0

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Newcomb, Tim

Location
LHS

Hernandez, Anna

LMS

McKee, Marcus

LMS

Position
Athletic Assistant Boys
Tennis
Athletic Assistant Cross
Country
Head Coach Boys C
Team Basketball

Effective
9.17.19

Position

Effective

Comments

9.17.19
10.28.19

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Comments

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

