DRAFT Meeting Minutes: Community Linkage Meeting
Connecting with Health Care Practitioners
Shuksan Middle School Library – 7 a.m.
December 9, 2015
Linkage Attendees:
 Health Care Practitioners: Ione Adams, Sea Mar Community Health Centers; Julie
Cheek, Interfaith Community Health Center (ICHC); Kristin Ely, ICHC; Peter Filuk,
PeaceHealth; Faisa Iram, Sea Mar; Deborah Roessler, Family Care Network (FCN); Greg
Thompson, PeaceHealth; Rachel Westerfield, PeaceHealth
 Directors Kelly Bashaw, Kenneth Gass, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler,
Steven Smith
 Superintendent of Schools Greg Baker
 District Leadership/Staff: Executive Director Nora Klewiada; Assistant Superintendent
Bob Kuehl; Executive Director Kurt Gazow; Executive Administrator Rob McElroy;
Executive Director Isabel Meaker; Assistant Superintendent Simone Sangster; Executive
Secretary and Recorder Ruth Rasmussen
 Audience: Quenby Peterson
1. Opening Items
Call to Order/Welcome and Introductions
Kelly Bashaw, School Board President, called the meeting to order at 7:00 a.m. She
welcomed the group and introduced Dr. Baker. Following Dr. Baker’s welcome and
opening comments, the invited guests, board members and district staff introduced
themselves and described their connections to the school district.
2. Meeting Purpose – Explanation of Community Linkage:
Dr. Gass thanked attendees for participating in this meeting. He explained that the school
board holds community linkages as an opportunity to strengthen connections with its
customers. These meetings allow board members to listen and connect with the
community. More specifically, the board is seeking input on the goals set for students
through board policies expressed in The Bellingham Promise.
3. Large-Group Discussion with School Board
Meeting facilitator Rob McElroy invited attendees to take a few minutes to review The
Bellingham Promise. He said the following guiding questions would serve as a
framework for this morning’s discussion:
 What rings true in The Bellingham Promise?
 What is missing in the goals of The Bellingham Promise?

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Health Care Practitioners
Page 2 of 5



How do the interactions that you and your staff have with Bellingham Public
Schools advance or impede attainment of The Bellingham Promise?
Summary of comments:
 What rings true?
o From a parent’s perspective, the goals [within The Promise] are awesome. It’s
hard to find fault with the document.
o Speaking as the parent of two elementary girls, I couldn’t be more delighted
with what they’ve gained outside their academic experience. As a physician, I
see it as well. When I see what kids are doing in the district, I’m simply blown
away in terms of how much more this generation is doing.
o Some of the kids I’m seeing are not achieving the goals cited in The Promise.
I treat a lot of kids who suffer from depression. They describe bullying, for
example. Resiliency training might be a good thing to add to The Promise.
Some students come from significantly impaired families. These are certainly
great goals, but the kids I see are not achieving them.
o I worry about those students who don’t have a passion that draws them
outside of academics. I don’t know that I have any solutions, but it would be
great to see more of those kids engaged in sports, or music – whatever is
important to them.
o I was surprised to hear about our graduation rate. That’s another issue for kids
that don’t fit the traditional mold. How do we, as a community, address that?
If you drop out of high school in today’s world, your options are very limited.
I know the school board is concerned about this.
o To put together a plan – in terms of how the community can get involved – is
difficult. I don’t know the best way to approach it.
o In the community where I worked previously, and in other communities,
school is seen by some as a burden you have to get through. Often, there is
just one teacher, or one counselor who makes a difference. Somebody is
noticing. Lots of kids get noticed, but a lot of kids don’t.


[From Dr. Smith] Are we waiting too long by not addressing these issues until a
child starts school?
o I don’t think it’s too late. I see a lot of the issues starting in middle school – in
terms of psychological issues, such as self-esteem. Elementary school seems
like a positive place for many.
o Are there more resources on-site that help in handling these problems? For
example, group sessions with training on how to handle basic stress. Many
students don’t have a parent to go to for that. Maybe an on-site mentor is
needed; one that could pull students in.
o The outcome regarding development of multi-lingual readers and speakers
resonates. I am pleased that Shuksan Middle School has a Spanish class for
students who are native speakers. A student I know said that was exciting for
her.

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Health Care Practitioners
Page 3 of 5



What is missing in the goals of The Bellingham Promise?
o There are families that engage well with the schools and others who have a lot
of struggles communicating with schools; particularly those with children who
are emotionally challenged or more typically, have ADHD, for example. The
ability to have families and schools trust and communicate well so we can
move forward successfully is critical.
o I think we need to identify a pathway for kids who are struggling
academically and we have to make sure they have a good advocate.
o Families/parents need to interact with the school. I don’t see anything within
The Promise about how the parents can be motivated to participate.



How do the interactions that you and your staff have with Bellingham Public
Schools advance or impede attainment of The Bellingham Promise?
o There is no argument with the mission, vision, core beliefs…but when it
comes down to actually working in the schools, people obviously have a lot
on their plates and competing priorities. Where does this fall as a priority for
staff and families? If it’s not happening, it’s a partnership on paper. It may
work great in some schools, but we are aware in others schools, there is a
higher need, and we are not reaching students.
o Dr. Baker: We communicate to stakeholders in multiple ways. For example,
our Priorities for Progress is distributed annually. This document takes our
five key strategies and identifies the work being done. We send this home to
all of our families.
o It would be helpful to have a clearer definition or outline of what’s available
in terms of resources at the school. I don’t know what’s available. Something
that says, “This is what we do and this is what’s in place,” so I can push it
from my end.
o When you do need to contact someone in the school, it feels restrictive to
figure out who to reach and who is the right person. Where do you start?
Occasionally, I’ve had someone in the school contact me, but that’s rare. It’s
cumbersome to figure out where to start.
o It would be great to have a liaison that is the go-between, someone who could
take almost any question and figure it out.
o Where do you start? Our schedules don’t mesh with staff. If I am treating a
child I have concerns about, is there a person in the school who is a case
manager or a liaison who can help navigate? A parent might say, “My child
has dyslexia; what do I do?” Who can I contact for more information?
o Dr. Gass: One resource that helps parents connect with services is available
through the Opportunity Council, which offers the SEAS (Single Entry
Access System) as part of the Birth to Three Program.
o Often the parents of children who are most behaviorally or emotionally
challenged have their own struggles. I’ve seen instances where the schools

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Health Care Practitioners
Page 4 of 5

think they are communicating one thing, but the parents are hearing something
very different. A liaison would be great.


Mr. McElroy: What other thoughts do you have about how you or your staff can
work with schools on either delivering The Promise or how we can remove
barriers in implementing it effectively?
o We have never-ending question in this community about vaccinations.
o I rarely get any notes from the school psychologist, or from nurses concerning
the health of my students. For example, if my student has an IEP, parents
sometimes don’t know the details. It is an unwieldy document. A letter with a
synopsis would be extremely useful.
o It would be helpful to know if a child even has an IEP. We are monitoring the
child’s growth and development, and there are issues in the report that will
impact that. It would be helpful to receive a notice that says “This student has
an IEP and this is what we have identified.”
o Often the parents of children who are most behaviorally or emotionally
challenged have their own struggles. I’ve seen instances where the schools
think they are communicating one thing, but the parents are hearing something
very different. A liaison would be great.
o Dr. Baker summarized various district initiatives that are relevant to this
discussion:
 Our Wellness Director, Jessica Sankey, was hired earlier this year
to focus on the overall wellness of students and staff. She could be
the person who helps build capacity for better communication
between schools and the medical community.
 Dr. Gass is involved in organizations that have structures that
integrate schools and the community; for example, Whatcom
Taking Action and the Whatcom Early Learning Alliance.
 Additionally, we have a number of committees and task forces that
are actively engaged in the district’s work priorities.
 As a district we are also focusing on the American Pediatric
Association’s recommendations on adolescent sleep in connection
with school start and end times.
 Our Family Resource Centers at Carl Cozier Elementary School
and Shuksan Middle School link local resources and human
services with families.
 The district’s GRADS program (Graduation, Reality, and DualRole Skills) for pregnant teens and young parents is the only one
offered north of Everett. The program is housed at Squalicum and
Sehome High Schools and a third is planned for Options High
School.
 The district partners with Woodring College of Education to
provide mentoring to 5th – 12th graders through the Compass 2
Campus program.

Draft Meeting Minutes
School Board Community Linkage with
Health Care Practitioners
Page 5 of 5



Project-Free Education helps reduce costs for school supplies, fees,
enrichment and field trips to help eliminate barriers that prevent
children from accessing programs.
 Our Food Services Advisory Group is currently working on a
vision that will guide the district’s food services program and the
design of a central kitchen facility.
o Mr. Benjamin: I really appreciate hearing the questions about how depression,
self-esteem, autism, ADHD, get in the way of learning. What community
services address these challenges, and how do we create a coherent plan for
tying these services together? Perhaps on-site clinics are a solution. I hope as a
board we start to think more specifically about this coordination, from a
visioning level.
o Dr. Gass: The Whatcom alliance for Health Advancement (WAHA) works to
promote access to health care services for our community. We as a
community need to be focused on supporting families in distress. The
investment in services that support families and young children with mental
health problems is critical. This is a challenge that has a huge impact on
education and our future citizens. We can’t accept the status quo.
4. Closing and Wrap-Up
 Dr. Baker thanked attendees for their participation. He summarized the key
points, comments, and questions that emerged from this morning’s discussion:
o Several in the group expressed appreciation for the well-rounded approach of
The Bellingham Promise. Its focus is clearly broader than just academics and
test scores.
o Different interventions are required for different students, and we need to
continue to figure out how to meet that challenge effectively.
o While a One Schoolhouse Approach is a key strategy, differentiation of
resources is often required.
o The first core belief within The Promise is that all children should be loved.
Today’s discussion highlighted how important it is that every child has
someone in their lives who will make a difference.
o The district will continue to explore ways to communicate effectively with our
community’s medical providers. We need to think of better ways to bring this
group to the table when working with students and families and determine
who would be the best liaison/navigator.
o We will continue to explore establishment of a health clinic or health-care
provider on site in schools.
o The board and district leaders will work together to ensure this conversation
will continue.
 Dr. Gass thanked participants on behalf of the school board.
The meeting adjourned at 8:07 a.m.

