Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT A

3/24/16 meeting minutes
Board Member: All (final compilation)
Policy Monitored: EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Date Report submitted: 2-18-16
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3-24-16
The Board has received and reviewed the Superintendent’s Monitoring Report referenced above.
Following the Board’s review and discussions with the Superintendent and his representatives, the
Board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
1. The Board finds that the Superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s)
b. is making reasonable progress towards
noted.*
achieving the goals.
c. is making reasonable progress toward
c. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
d. is not in compliance or is not making
progress is expected in some areas.*
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
d. is not making reasonable progress in
e. cannot be determined*
achieving the goals established. *
e. cannot be determined*
*see comments below (No. 3)
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 “Pool” hiring seems to be paying off; only one unfilled position at the start of the year (.33
FTE). This is way ahead of the national trend as cited in the report. (Compelling evidence)
 The steady progress in hiring those who fall in affirmative action populations is
commendable. (Equity, fairness or justice are demonstrated)
 -33% reduction in teacher absenteeism over past two years. (Compelling evidence)
 Human Resources continues to make annual progress across numerous areas and has settled
recent contract negotiations easily and fairly.
 additional job fairs
 reduction in excused teacher absences
 working on streamlining the volunteer process with an online application (done in conjunction
with HR and the new volunteer coordinator)
 new employee orientation agenda
 more mandatory trainings are being offered online
 Ed Tech staff now part of SEIU
 Continuous strides being made in terms of how BSD values all employees.
 It is commendable that the Human Resources staff will be offering seminars at schools to help
teachers navigate the confusing certification renewal process.
 nearly 100% filled teaching positions on first day of school
 increase in HR expertise in teacher certification renewal

Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT A

3/24/16 meeting minutes
Board Member: All (final compilation)
Policy Monitored: EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Date Report submitted: 2-18-16
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3-24-16





implementing strategies to reduce need for scheduled subs, coordinating increased efforts to
address how to meet needs of unfilled positions at each school
hiring volunteer coordinator
100% instructional teaching staff and building administrators trained in TPEP
Professional Development for BASE-represented employees

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 (This is not an area for improvement, but a suggestion.) It would be useful to continue to track
the efforts to reduce teacher absenteeism. A 33% reduction over the past two years is
encouraging and is a very powerful solution to the substitute shortage.
 How were the percentage targets for minorities determined? A hyperlink to the original
targets adopted by the board in 2013 would be helpful.
 How has a computer-based application process impacted applications for lower income
families who don’t have easy access to computers? Is it multilingual?
 Continue to improve our diversity hiring.
 The district should strive to hire more teachers of color.
 Determine if a new online volunteer application system is feasible and can be implemented.
 How is the effectiveness of online training monitored? (For example, duty to report, bullying,
etc.) Is there any follow up to determine if online training works as well as other methods?
 Concern regarding sustainability of some practices such as hiring so early prior to new school
year.
 What are the "appropriate comparable districts?" Are our region and local economy
considered and what impact is BSD having regionally?
 Would like to hear more about effectiveness and outcomes of employee improvement plans
and how TPEP is influencing this work. Perhaps also include a link to the data (evaluation
scores) provided to OSPI. Would like to hear about both successes and less-than-successful
outcomes and how those results can and will be used to improve practices.
 Re: 2.a. If staff are not "effective" in their position, what processes are in place to ensure
students are still receiving high quality services while the district addresses improving the
effectiveness of the employee or finding alternatives to providing necessary services?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4. Comments on the report itself.
 As the board has come to expect, the report is clear, comprehensive and detailed.
 Consider providing an executive one-page summary that highlights in a sentence or two the
developments and challenges over the last year, and any initiatives for the coming year.
 The report makes no mention of benchmarking against similar and highly effective school
districts as provided in the policy.

Monitoring Response Document

ATTACHMENT A

3/24/16 meeting minutes
Board Member: All (final compilation)
Policy Monitored: EL-4, Staff Treatment, Compensation and Evaluation
Date Report submitted: 2-18-16
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 3-24-16


Excellent



It is somewhat difficult to identify the specific areas of improvement from just the previous
year, as much of the report is the same as the prior year's report. A brief summary of the
improvements specific to the time reporting period might be helpful.
The report references "appropriate comparable districts" but doesn't define which ones. The
board would like to see that better defined and explained.



5. Possible changes to the policy.
 none

