1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 3, 2016
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
November 3, 2016 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Camille Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson, Steven Smith,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen. Ms. Bashaw was absent as
she was attending a ceremony in which she received the Volunteer of the Year award
from FuturesNW.
Audience: No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Dr. Baker reported on the following
topics:
 Squalicum High School Turf Field Dedication – Participants in the ceremony
included the Squalicum High School football team. Ms. Diaz Hackler represented
the school board. The field is top notch and has generated a lot of excitement
among students, staff, and the community.
 Walking in the Shoes – Dr. Baker recently walked in the shoes of two Squalicum
High School English teachers. This provided an opportunity to engage with
students and staff about the changes coming next year, including 1:1 technology,
start and end time adjustments, and the 4x8 schedule.
 College Board’s WA Superintendents’ Advisory Meeting – Dr. Baker updated
the board on this meeting, which brought together 15 superintendents to explore
issues and share best practices.
CONSENT ITEMS: Prior to voting on the consent agenda, the board discussed Item 2.8,
Approve Updated Policy 3200 – Rights and Responsibilities. Following discussion, it
was agreed to revise the first sentence of the policy as follows: Each year, the
superintendent will develop and distribute to all students, their parents/guardians the
community, and staff information pertaining to student rights, conduct, corrective actions
and discipline.
Mr. Benjamin then made a motion, seconded by Dr. Smith, to approve the following
consent agenda. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of the October 20, 2016 regular meeting
Approval of Investments – October 2016
Resolution 21-16, Assurance of Racial Balance

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Nov. 3, 2016

2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10

Resolution 22-16, Authorize District Signatures
Resolution 23-16, Compliance with RCW 39.10
Resolution 24-16, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Northwest Educational Service District 189 New Pedagogies for Deep Learning
Contract (#1617-084)
Approve Updated Policy 3200 – Rights and Responsibilities (with above referenced
revision)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

3.0
3.1

SCHOOL BOARD STUDY SESSION
Study Session re: Social Emotional Learning: Department of Teaching & Learning
(DTL) Director Keith Schacht, Executive Director Rob McElroy, and certificated staff
Tina Alsop, Jason Bergman, Ryan Leckie, Pam Pottle, and Katie Ruthford joined the
board for this study session. Summary of comments:
 Social Emotional Learning (SEL) is a topic that generates significant interest from
staff. It is one of the most frequently requested topics requested by staff when the
Choice Menu professional development catalog is developed.
 The DTL has an existing family engagement work team that has embraced the
work surrounding SEL. The team meets once per month and consists of
principals, directors, counselors and others.
 Many staff have been trained in Adverse Childhood Experience (ACES) which is
a critical component of SEL.
 Key questions:
o How do we support students who are coming to us with high ACES scores
and significant social/emotion trauma?
o How do we create unconditionally safe classrooms where students know
they are loved? Can we see our students’ potential before we see their
challenges?
o How do we build the softer skills of resilience and grit in our students?
 Two excellent resources used by our leadership team are Our Kids by Robert
Putnam and Helping Children Succeed by Paul Tough.
 The Restorative Justice work under the leadership of DTL Director Steve Morse
has been an important component of this work.
 Staff development is key; the district needs to continue to explore what resources
are most effective.
 The Bellingham Promise commits to the whole child. We need to continuously
ask how we are doing in our focus on social/emotional as well as academic
development of our students.

4.0
4.1

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-1 – Expectations of the Superintendent: On
October 20, 2016 the board agenda included a monitoring report on EL-1, Expectations
of the Superintendent. Tonight’s discussion focused on whether the superintendent is in
2

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Nov. 3, 2016

4.2

5.0
5.1

5.2

compliance with the policy. There was general discussion regarding the challenges
inherent in interpretation of the policy when responding to monitoring reports, and it was
agreed that at a future meeting, the board would consider whether revisions to the policy
are in order. See Attachment 1 for a summary of board responses to the monitoring
report.
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-5 – Communication and Counsel to the Board
On Oct. 20, 2016 the agenda included a monitoring report on EL-5, Communication and
Counsel to the Board. This discussion focused on whether the superintendent is in
compliance with the policy. See Attachment 2 for a summary of board responses to the
monitoring report.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Ms. Diaz Hackler has met with Dr. Baker and Tanya Rowe to plan for the board
linkage with Punjabi families. Under consideration are plans to coordinate the
meeting with one of the community dinners at Shuksan Middle School and to
provide childcare if needed.
 Ms. Peterson was recently interviewed by a Running Start student on the policymaking process.
 Mr. Benjamin distributed a handout in preparation for the upcoming special board
meeting on board advocacy and board/superintendent relations. The meeting will
take place on Nov. 17 during the WSSDA Annual Conference (Nov. 16-19),
which all board members and the superintendent will attend.
Discussion of School Board Visits and Linkages - General discussion regarding the
Oct. 26 special meeting/linkage with law enforcement personnel.

6.0

NEW BUSINESS – none

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting with an overall
rating of 5 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

7.2

_____________________________________
Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

3

