1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 5, 2016
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
October 5, 2016 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Camille Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience: No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report:
 Dr. Baker and Doctoral Resident Prateek Dutta recently attended Harvard Graduate
School of Education’s meeting in connection with the Doctor of Education
Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program.
 The next Staff Learning Day is scheduled for Oct. 14. An informational video sent
earlier this year describes the purpose of these professional development and
collaboration days for teachers and other staff.
 This month’s District Leadership Team meeting agenda included continued
discussion relating to the Our Kids book study and an update on connections made
with the “94 - Class of 2016.” (These are Bellingham Public School students who did
not finish high school within four years.)
 The district is hosting the fall Washington State School Directors’ (WSSDA) regional
meeting on Oct. 6.
CONSENT ITEMS:
Dr. Smith made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to approve the following consent
agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of the September 15, 2016 regular meeting
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – August 2016 (revised) and September 2016
Skagit Valley College Interlocal Agreement (#1617-042)
University of Washington College in the High School (#1617-046)
OSPI Perkins Application Plan (#1617-055)
Graduation Alliance Scope of Work Agreement (#1617-057)
Educational Data Systems (#1617-063)
Approve Kulshan Middle School Rainwater Catchment System Agreement (#1617064)
Lunch Lessons Chef Consultant (#1617-068)
Personnel Recommendations

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Oct. 5, 2016

2.11

Personal Services Contracts

3.0
3.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Ms. Diaz Hackler recently attended WSSDA’s Legislative Assembly in Spokane.
She briefly reviewed key discussion items and suggested the board consider
scheduling a visit to North Central High School’s Institute of Science and
Technology.
 An interview with Ms. Peterson and Mr. Benjamin will be part of the fall edition
of Inside Schools.
 Ms. Peterson attended a recent seminar on Internet Crimes Against Children.
 Mr. Benjamin reviewed some suggested pre-work and reading materials that will
be the basis for discussion at the board’s upcoming advocacy workshop.
 Mr. Benjamin participated in a recent meeting at Carl Cozier Elementary School
to hear feedback from families on the school’s candidacy for the International
Baccalaureate (IB) Primary Years Program.
 Ms. Bashaw will serve on a committee that is forming in the community to
support children who have a parent or parents who are incarcerated.
 Ms. Bashaw and Department of Teaching and Learning Director Steve Morse
recently attended a Northwest Youth Services capital facilities presentation.
 Dr. Smith and Ms. Peterson are continuing sub-committee work on Governing
Policies (GP) review. During discussion, the consensus of the board was to
proceed with recommendations to streamline and combine verbiage in some of
the policies. Mr. Benjamin asked that the GP review process be put on hold until
after the Board Advocacy discussion, which he felt would benefit the GP review.
It was agreed that no more revisions will be brought before the board until after
the Board Advocacy discussion.

3.2

Discussion of School Board Visits and Linkages - No discussion.

4.0

NEW BUSINESS – No Discussion

5.0
5.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Quenby assessed the meeting with an overall
rating of 4 (good)
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:57 p.m.

6.2

_____________________________________
Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board

2

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
Oct. 5, 2016

Minutes approved: ______________

3

