DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
July 21, 2016
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.12
2.14
2.15

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
July 21, 2016 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Camille Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience: No audience presented
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Dr. Baker asked Ron Cowan,
Executive Director, Capital Projects and School Facilities, to provide a facilities update.
Mr. Cowan provided an overview of the following projects: Parkview Elementary, Happy
Valley Elementary, Options High School, Sehome High School, and Squalicum High
School Turf Fields.
CONSENT ITEMS
Ms. Peterson asked that consent agenda items 2.10, 2.11, and 2.13 be voted on separately
and the board members agreed to this request.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Bashaw, to approve the following
consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of the June 14 Linkage and Regular Meetings
Approval of Investments - June 2016
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll - June 2016
Resolution 15-16, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Institute for Multi-Sensory Education (#1516-111)
Max Higbee Center Agreement for Services (#1516-119)
Reading & Writing Project Network, LLC (#1516-121)
Whatcom Tech Prep Consortium Memorandum of Agreements (#1516-123 and
#1617-034)
Whatcom Community College Inter-Agency Agreements (#1617-001) (#1617-002)
(#1617-003)
City of Bellingham Interlocal Agreement - District Resource Officer Program
(#1617-012)
Opportunity Council Early Intervention Services Contract (#1617-016)
City of Bellingham Aggregating Data (#1617-025)

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
July 21, 2016

2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22

City of Bellingham Geographic Information Systems (#1617-029)
Northwest Regional Data Center - NWRDC (#1617-009)
LAP Partnership Readiness to Learn
Award Bid for Yearbooks
Committee Appointment Form - Committee FOR School Bus Levy
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

The board members then discussed the following consent agenda items and the district’s efforts
to eliminate pay-to-play athletics.
2.10
2.11
2.13

WWU Wade King Student Recreation Center (#1617-004)
North Coast Gymnastics Academy (#1617-011)
City of Bellingham Arne Hanna (#1617-014)

Ms. Peterson cited concerns regarding the district’s practice of waiving fees associated with
certain after-school sports, such as swimming and gymnastics. She said these activities involve a
relatively small number of athletes and the fees are relatively high. She would prefer the district
prioritize efforts to eliminate fees incurred for bell-to-bell activities. After further discussion, Mr.
Benjamin made a motion to approve consent agenda items 2.10, 2.11, and 2.13. Affirmative
votes: Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Bashaw and Ms. Diaz Hackler. Opposed: Ms. Peterson. During
follow-up discussion, Dr. Baker noted that Pay-to-Play is a complex topic that the administrative
team will continue to focus on. He noted that although we as a district are not exactly where we
want to be, significant strides have been made in the reduction of fees in the past six years.
3.0 BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
3.1 EL-6 Academic Standards and Practices
 On June 23, 2016, the board heard a monitoring report on EL-6. In keeping with
Policy Governance, the board discussed whether the superintendent is in compliance
with EL-6 and whether changes are needed to the policy. Following discussion, Ms.
Bashaw made a motion confirming the Superintendent is in compliance with EL-6.
(See Attachment A for full summary of comments). The board further agreed that no
revisions to the policy are needed at this time.
4.0 INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
4.1 School Board Directors’ Reports
 Ms. Peterson attended a recent meeting of the Mayor’s Neighborhood Advisory
Commission. The deputy chief of police presented and expressed that the police
department is trying to increase officers’ presence in schools.
5.0 NEW BUSINESS - None
6.0 CLOSING ITEMS
6.1 Board Assessment of Meeting
 Ms. Bashaw assessed the meeting with an overall rating of 3 (satisfactory).

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
July 21, 2016

6.2 ADJOURNMENT
 The meeting adjourned at 7:24 p.m.

_____________________________________
Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

