1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3
1.4

1.4
2.0

2.3

2.1

2.2
2.4
2.5
2.6

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 25, 2016
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location
August 25, 2016 – 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call
Board President Camille Diaz Hackler called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m. Present:
Directors Kelly Bashaw, Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Quenby Peterson,
Steven Smith, Superintendent Greg Baker, and recorder Ruth Rasmussen.
Audience: No audience presented
Public Hearing on Resolution 14-16 Budget Extension – General Fund: Ms. Diaz
Hackler opened the public hearing. She said this was an opportunity for members of the
public to comment either for or against the adoption of Resolution 14-16 (Item 2.4 of this
meeting’s consent agenda) in connection with a requested increase to the 2015-16
General Fund appropriation amount. There was no public comment.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Dr. Baker updated the board on the
first two days of school, and he shared a video tour of Happy Valley Elementary School.
CONSENT ITEMS: Ms. Diaz Hackler said she would recuse herself from voting on
consent agenda item 2.3, Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – July 2016, because it
includes an invoice for $64.79 from Construction Supply Company, Inc., where her
husband is employed. Under state law, board members are required to identify and report
when they have a conflict of interest (RCW 42.23.030).
Dr. Smith made a motion to approve the following single consent agenda item.
Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Peterson, Dr. Smith. Abstention: Ms.
Diaz Hackler.
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – July 2016
Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of Minutes of the June 22, 2016 Executive Session; June 23, 2016 Regular
Board Meeting; July 20, 2016 Special Meeting; and July 21, 2016 Regular Board
Meeting.
Approval of Investments – July 2016
Resolution 14-16: Budget Extension – General Fund
Resolution No. 16-16: 2016-2017 School Board Meeting Schedule
Resolution 17-16: Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
August 25, 2016

2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22
2.23
2.24
2.25
2.26
2.27
2.28
2.29
3.0
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4

Resolution No. 18-16 BSD non-represented employees VEBA Plan for 2016-17
Driveway Easement
Wetland Mitigation Easement
Western Washington University Woodring College of Education Memorandum of
Agreement (#1617-008)
Award Bid and Contract for Food Services Software - Horizon Software (#1617026)
Northwest Educational Service District 189 Highly Capable Program Cooperative
Agreement (#1617-032)
2016-17 iGrants Form Package - Highly Capable Program
College Board Contract (#1617-033)
Opportunity Council-Early Learning & Family Services Inter-Agency Agreement
(#1617-035)
Home Port Learning Center Agreement (#1617-036)
Sea Mar Community Health Centers - Visions Treatment Center Contract (#1617037)
Whatcom County Health Department Contract Extension (#1617-039)
YMCA Before and After School Care (#1617-040)
ESD 112 - CDL Skills Testing Fee (#1617-041)
Bellingham Technical College Running Start Program Agreement (#1617-044)
Mount Baker Theatre Agreement (#1617-047)
Agile Mind Education Holdings Service Agreement (#1617-052)
Meridian School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational
Services- Physical Therapist (#1617-053)
Mount Baker School District Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational
Services-Physical Therapist (#1617-054)
Grant Agreement - Homeless Student Stability Program
Grant Agreement - College Spark
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
ACTION ITEMS
WSSDA 1000 Policy Series and GP-13 – ACTION ITEM 1 (Memo)
WSSDA 1000 Policy Series and GP-13 – ACTION ITEM 2 (GP-13)
WSSDA 1000 Policy Series and GP-13 – ACTION ITEM 3 (Policies attached)
WSSDA 1000 Policy Series and GP-13 – ACTION ITEM 4 (WSSDA Policies not
recommended for Adoption)
Tanya Rowe, Executive Director of Communications and Community Relations provided
background information on these agenda items. Summary of her comments:
 The WSSDA policy series provides the process by which we govern the district.
These policies contain details that help staff and the board know how to respond to
different situations or questions – such as what process to follow when a board
vacancy occurs.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
August 25, 2016









In policy governance districts, the board develops and refines Governance Process
policies (GPs), Executive Limitations policies (ELs) and Board-Superintendent
Relationship (BSRs) policies to provide direction, clear expectations and guidance to
the superintendent and staff.
In policy governance districts, the WSSDA policies then become Administrative
Policies. The 1000-series is still part of the administrative policy manual, but is
specific to school board operations.
In our district, the board adopted policy governance, GPs, ELs and BSRs without
updating the 1000 policy series at that time. This left outdated 1000 series policies in
place and created some redundancy.
Tonight, the Superintendent recommends that the board adopt GP-13 and the 1000
policy series as outlined in the memo. This will update our 1000 series policies and
procedures and delete anything that is outdated.
Following this action, it will make it easier for staff to bring any redundancies in the
GPs and BSRs to the board’s attention, and support the board in updating, combining
or deleting any GPs or BSRs at future board meetings this school year.
This approach has been reviewed and approved by our legal counsel.

Following discussion, the board agreed to form a sub-committee to review existing
Policy Governance policies with a focus on cleaning up inconsistencies and
redundancies. The board agreed to appoint Ms. Peterson and Dr. Smith to serve on this
sub-committee. Mr. Benjamin then made a motion to adopt GP-13 and the 1000 policy
series in accordance with Dr. Baker’s memo and to appoint a sub-committee to work on
refining existing Policy Governance policies. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Dr. Baker noted that this action represents the culmination of two years of work by Ms.
Rowe, and he and the board expressed appreciation to her and her team for an
outstanding effort.
4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4

4.5
4.6

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
B/SR-1 Board/Supt. Connection
B/SR-2 Delegation to the Superintendent
B/SR-3 Superintendent Evaluation
B/SR-3.1 Annual Summative Evaluation
Following discussion, it was agreed to postpone a review and discussion of Items 4.1
through 4.4 and to vote on these items at a later date, when the work of the
sub-committee (referred to previously) is complete.
GP-7 Agenda Planning
GP-7.1 Annual Board Agenda
Following discussion, Mr. Benjamin made a motion to approve Items 4.5 and 4.6, with
no recommended revisions. Unanimous affirmative vote.

Draft Meeting Minutes
Regular Board Meeting
August 25, 2016

5.0
5.1

5.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
 Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Bashaw attended the All District Staff Kick-off
Celebration at Squalicum High School. This will be a discussion item at the Sept.
15 board meeting.
Discussion of School Board Visits and Linkages: Tabled.

6.0
6.1

NEW BUSINESS
Fall Study Session/Retreat Planning:
 The board agreed to the formation of a committee to plan a study session for the
purpose of exploring two questions in depth: 1) What are board members’ roles and
responsibilities under the Policy Governance model and more specifically, what does
it mean to be an activist/advocate under such a model? 2) What should board
members’ and the superintendent’s mutual expectations be under a Policy
Governance model? The board agreed to appoint Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Diaz
Hackler to serve on this committee.
Business Cards:
 Dr. Baker asked board members to contact Ms. Rasmussen if they would like to
order new business cards.

7.0
7.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Mr. Benjamin assessed the meeting with an overall
rating of 5 (commendable).
Adjournment: 7:06 p.m.

7.2

_____________________________________
Camille Diaz Hackler, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

