February 25, 2021
School Board Meeting
Minutes
via Zoom/Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:00 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, Kelli
Kettels, CJ Costanti and David Vis. Student Director, Riley Anderson was present.
The Board recognized the passing of Terry DeValois “DV”, a long-time advocate of the Lynden
Community and the Lynden School District. “He was known as a fine human being” stated the Lynden
School Board of Directors.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• February 11, 2021
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by
voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
•
•
•
•
•

2020-21 General Fund $240,640.87 Warrants 159355 - 159438 dated February 12, 2021
2020-21 ASB Fund $2,771.78 Warrants 159439 – 159443 dated February 12, 2021
General Fund $91.00 Warrants 159444 – 159444 dated February 12, 2021
2020-21 ACH General Fund $2,314.34 Warrants 202100093 - 202100106 dated February 12, 2021
2020-21 ASB Fund $69.80 Warrants 202100107 - 202100108 dated February 12, 2021

Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Kelli Kettels. Motion carried by
voice vote.
4. Information from the Audience
Peg Zaremba-Born addressed the Board of Directors regarding the needs and what plans are being
developed for secondary students to return to full-time learning.
5. Reports
Superintendent
• Enrollment Projections
Jim Frey provided a spreadsheet of the 2021-2022 initial enrollment projection that will help
plan for the 2021-2022 budget. Jim shared how a reduction in enrollment will contribute to a

reduction in the budget and shared how administration plans to monitor and communicate with
families about students returning to the Lynden School District.
•

Health Department Update
Jim Frey informed the Board of recent communication with the Whatcom County Health
Department and updated information from the Washington State Department of Health about
in-person learning and the indicators that allow students to return and remain in school by
meeting requirements based on data. Jim shared information about a vaccination clinic
forthcoming for staff of the Lynden School District.

Teaching and Learning
None at this meeting.
Finance
• Grant Overview 2020-2021
The Board reviewed a summary of local, state, and federal grant programs that were used to
help support students and staff in the Lynden School District during the 2020-2021 school year.
•

Budget Calendar 2021-2022
Jim Frey shared a budget calendar that outlines financial projects and targets of completion for
the 2021-2022 school year.

6. Board Workshop
• Asset Preservation Program (APP)
Kevin Burke, Facilities and Maintenance Supervisor, updated the Board on the Asset
Preservation Program (APP) for Fisher Elementary and Lynden Middle School that will report
continued evaluation of these facilities and be reported to OSPI. Kevin also provided information
on existing and new protocol for maintenance and grounds to address the needs for all school
facilities.
•

Equity in Education
The Board reviewed a draft summary plan to engage in discussions of equity in education. The
areas of equity in education will focus on achievement status; educational opportunities; social
and emotional supports; and climate and culture. Jim Frey and Steve Jilk shared about recent
and on-going conversation to ensure support that will include equity in education for all
students.

7. Action Items
None at this meeting.
8. Policy
None at this meeting.
9. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:35 P.M.

10. Executive Session
None at this meeting.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

