September 23, 2021
School Board Meeting
Minutes
8750 Line Rd., Lynden, WA
or
Via Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.

1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:02 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johnson, CJ
Costanti, and David Vis. Board Director, Kelli Kettels, was absent and excused. Student Director, Grace
Potter was present.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• September 9, 2021
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice
vote.
3. Consent Agenda
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

2020-21 General Fund $254,848.02 Warrants 161616 - 161670 dated September 15, 2021
2020-21 Capital Projects $149,268.11 Warrants 161671 through 161671 dated September 15, 2021
2020-21 ASB Fund $2,418.94 Warrants 161672 through 161676 dated September 15, 2021
2021-22 General Fund $439,625.37 Warrants 161677 through 161720 dated September 15, 2021
2021-22 ASB Fund $5,897.54 Warrants 161721 through 161724 dated September 15, 2021
2021-22 ACH General Fund $1,979.10 Warrants 202200002 through 202200013 dated September 15,
2021
Personnel Action Items 9.23.21

Brian Johnson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
4. Information from the Audience
Topics of discussion from the audience included: Thanks and appreciation to the Board of Directors
for their on-going decision making; Board has not moved with us, this is about control, there are no
mask breaks, no lockers, lunch breaks are too short, witnessed a hypocrisy at football game with
some attendees not wearing masks, we’re being held hostage, stop saying there is nothing we can
do, do a survey about masks; Thank you to the Board for listening and upholding the mandates in
place, please continue to focus on education collectively as your responsibility.

5. Letter to the Governor
Steve Jilk, Board President, read a draft letter comprised with input and reviewed by all School
Board of Directors to Governor Inslee pertaining to the mask mandate by the Governor’s office.
Director, David Vis, requested the draft statement in the letter “differing views from all in the
community” be amended to “differing views from some in the community”. The Board agreed to
amend the statement as requested.
Brian Johnson motioned to accept the Letter to the Governor seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by
voice vote.
6. Reports
Superintendent
None at this meeting
Teaching and Learning
None at this meeting
Finance
• Budget Update – June, July, August
The Board reviewed information on the budget for June, July and August containing a summary
of financial status, enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
7. Board Workshop
• Technology Department Presentation
Dusty Gulleson of eResources presented about the goals and projects the Information
Technology department is managing and the changes in the look and operation of our district
and school websites that will be forthcoming in the future school year. The Board thanked Dusty
and the IT personnel for their hard work to ensure a successful year for students and staff.
8. Action Items
• Instructional Materials Curriculum
The Board considered the supplemental math curriculum for Fisher Elementary grades K-5 that
was approved by the Instructional Materials Committee.
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the curriculum seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
•

Highly Capable Grant
Teaching and Learning Director, Julie van Wijk and Hi-Cap Coordinator, Megan Dickson,
provided information on the highly capable program for state grant approval.
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the Highly Capable program seconded by David Vis. Motion carried
by voice vote.
9. Policy – Second Reading
Policy #1822 – Training and Development for Board Members
Brian Johnson motioned to approve Policy #1822 seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.

10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:05 P.M.
11. Executive Session (30 minutes)
The Board was informed of negotiations with Service Employees International Union (SEIU).
The Board discussed personnel.
12. Adjourn Executive Session
Executive Session adjourned at 8:25 P.M.

Mike Stromme
Interim Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
September 23, 2021

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Position
SLPA
Para Ed 3
COVID Support
COVID Support

Hrs.
7.0
6.0
7.0
7.0

Effective
9.13.21
9.13.21
9.15.21 – 6.15.22
9.23.21 – 6.15.22

Comments
Replaces Iversen

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Odushkin, Irina
Hawkins, Emily
Solis, Marina
Hernandez,
Connie

Location
Fisher
BVE
District
District

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Macy, June

Location
Isom

Position
Noon Supv

Hrs.
3.5

Effective
11.10 – 11.22.21

Comments
Unpaid leave of
absence

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Jones, Charity

Location
Fisher

Position
3rd Grade

FTE
1.0

Effective
9.15.21

Comments
Resignation

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

