October 28, 2021
School Board Meeting
Minutes
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA
or
Via Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:12 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, Brian Johson, and CJ
Costanti. Board Director, Kelli Kettels and David Vis joined via teleconference. Student Director, Grace
Potter was absent and excused.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• October 14, 2021
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Brian Jonson. Motion carried by voice
vote.
3. Consent Agenda
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

2020-21 General Fund $271,510.55 Warrants 161884- 161970 dated October !5, 2021
2020-21 ASB Fund $21,668.05 Warrants 161971 through 161987 dated October 15, 2021
2021-22 Custodial Fund $1,614.57 Warrants 161988 through 161988 dated October 15, 2021
2021-22 ASB Fund $190.68 Warrants 212200049 through 212200052 dated October 15, 2021
2021-22 ACH General Fund $2,876.15 Warrants 212200032 through 212200048 dated October 15, 2021
2021-22 ACH ASB Fund $122.84 Warrants 212200030 through 212200031 dated September 30, 2021
Personnel Action Items 10.28.21

Brian Jonson motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
4. Information from the Audience
Topics of discussion from the audience included: Tired of mandates, hopeful for consideration for
vaccination exemptions for children; Concerns of mandated shots for children; Teachers should not
express their opinions to students about COVID, health is a private issue between children and
parents; Staff is pushing agenda’s, shared student experiences, Board is not addressing concerns,
Board needs to reach out to Eatonville and Enumclaw School Districts going against mandates;
Witnessed board member without mask at an event, stand up for our kids against mask mandates;
Kids will be pulled from schools if Board goes along with vaccine mandate; Both Lynden and Lynden
Christian Boards won’t stand up for kids, our money should be used against mandates; Lunch time
needs to be addressed, one size vaccine does not fit all, School Board will be remembered by where
they stand, Board members without kids in the schools should step down, masks don’t work God will
take you if he wants to take you, how does the Board sleep knowing they are abusing children; Agree
with all previous audience comments, where is the transparency, do not allow vaccination for kids
without more knowledge, COVID deaths for kids is not a thing.

5. Superintendent Search Review
• Superintendent Search Process
Mark Venn and Wayne Robertson of Northwest Leadership shared their interactions for the
search of a Superintendent for the Lynden School District. The Board reviewed the key date
timeline for superintendent search beginning in November 2021, which includes a leadership
survey, focus group meetings, publicized vacancy announcement, and preparation for interview
phases.
6. Action Items
• Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Contract Agreement
The Board reviewed the SEIU Agreement.
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the SEIU Agreement seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
Amended to Include in Action Items
• Strategic Planning
President, Steve Jilk, recommended the adoption and action of the Strategic Plan
Brian Johnson motioned to approve the Strategic Plan seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
7. Reports
Superintendent
• Strategic Planning
Mike Stromme presented the final version of the 2021-2024 Strategic Plan based on: Safe and
Supportive Learning Environment; College and Career Ready Graduates; Family and Community
Partnership; Culturally Responsive and Inclusive Learning Environment. The Board discussed the
plan and approved of the goals set in the plan.
Teaching and Learning
None at this meeting
Finance
None at this meeting
8. Board Work Session
9. Policy
10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 9:05 P.M.
11. Executive Session

Mike Stromme
Interim Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
October 28, 2021

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
4.0
4.0
4.25
6.0

Effective
10.18.21
10.15.21
10.18.21
10.19.21

Comments

Hrs.
2.50

Effective
10.6.21

Comments
Resignation of .25
hours

FTE
1.0

Effective
Appx 12.14 –
4.1.22

Comments
Paternity Leave of
Absence

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Ford, Michelle
Bates, Breesa
Benedict, Sheryl
Lineham, Nicole

Location
Transp
Transp
BVE
LHS

Position
Bus Driver
Bus Driver
Food Svc Asst
Para Ed

Replaces Heusinkveld

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
VanLoo, Heidi

Location
LHS

Position
Food Svc Asst

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Lambert, Reid

Location
LMS

Position
Teacher

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Stevenson, Melissa

Location
CT

Position
Para Ed

Hrs.
6.0

Effective
10.8 – 10.18.21

Wemp, Deanna

Fisher

Para Ed

4.0

10.6 – 1.14.22

Miner, Carol

Isom

6.0

10.12 – 11.5.21

Iaconetti, Barbara

Pre School

Office
Personnel
Para Ed

6.0

9.7.21 –
Undetermined

Comments
Unpaid Leave of
Absence
Medical Leave of
Absence
Medical Leave of
Absence
Intermittent medical
leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
1.75

Effective
10.18.21

Comments
Separation from District

6.0
3.0

10.22.21
11.4.21

Resignation
Resignation

3.5

10.28.21

Retirement

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Heusinkfeld, Doris

Location
BVE

McClendon, Aubrye
Nunez, Mary

BVE
Fisher

Templin, Esther

High School

Position
Food
Service Asst
Para Ed
Food
Service Asst
Para Ed

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

