April 22, 2021
School Board Meeting
Minutes
In-Person 516 Main Street and
via Zoom/Phone Conference
7:00 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 7:0 P.M. Board Directors in attendance were Steve Jilk, CJ Costanti and David
Vis. Board of Directors absent and excused were Brian Johnson and Kelli Kettels. Student Director, Riley
Anderson was absent and excused.
2. Good News
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

Lynden Academy Teacher, Peter Binskin, won Praise 106.5's Gold Star teacher award!
At the middle school, their support classes for students are showing great gains after comparing
trimester 1 final grades to trimester 2. 20% of our students are engaged in on campus support on
their "at home" days. After the completion of 2nd trimester, they have seen these students gain
an average increase in GPA of 1.1 points out of a 4.0 system. Great job students, thank you, staff!
FFA is getting teams ready for district and state contests and the NW Washington Fair. Layla
Todd finished 1st with her Dairy Production Placement for District 1 and now goes to
state FFA for judging.
FBLA has lots of new members this year and they had to really think outside of the box to get
their presentations prepared and delivered in a format that was completely new to all of them.
They did it and
Fisher wrapped up Reading Month with an amazing 117, 000 minutes of reading. That more
than 81 days of straight reading if you read 24 hours a day. The top 2 winners each won a bike
from the Ferndale/Lynden Masons. We had such a great time celebrating with trivia contests,
book cover design contests, reading contests and a Character dress up day. now they will be
preparing to do it again at the state level.
BVE has 9 teachers trained in LTRS for phonemic awareness. The strategies learned and
implemented have been transformational in teaching students to read and closing the
achievement/reading gaps.
4th grade classes at BVE teamed up in the computer lab to create Power Point Presentations.
The students used their new learnings from a 2 month, in depth study of Lewis and Clark's
Expedition across the U.S. to create a slide show presentation about the journey! Each of the 1015 slides had to contain a graphic and text. The students blew staff out of the water with their
creativity, technical skills, and ability to synthesize the information that they learned. The best
part was that they were so excited to share what they had created with their peers! Bravo to the
4th graders at BVE!

School Board President, Steve Jilk, requested to amend the Agenda to include an Executive Session. The
Board of Directors agreed to amend the Agenda.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the amended Agenda, David Vis seconded Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
• March 25, 2021
• March 30, 2021
CJ Costanti motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by David Vis motion carried by voice
vote.
4. Consent Agenda
•
•
•
•
•

2020-21 General Fund $542,122.86 Warrants 159765 - 159847 dated April 15, 2021
2020-21 ASB Fund $1,493.63 Warrants 159848 – 159852 dated April 15, 2021
2020-21 ACH General Fund $2,627.71 Warrants 202100149 - 202100169 dated April 15, 2021
2020-21 ACH ASB Fund $272.44 Warrants 202100170 - 202100173 dated April 15, 2021
Personnel Action Items 4.22.21

CJ Costanti motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice
vote.
5. Information from the Audience
• Hailey Marti addressed the School Board of Directors regarding reopening of school protocols
• Doris Smith addressed the School Board of Directors regarding future choices in curriculum.
6. Public Hearing
Capital Projects Extension
No comments were made during the public hearing.
7. Adjourn Public Hearing
Public Hearing Adjourned at 7:28 P.M.
8. Reports
Superintendent
• Enrollment Boundary Adjustments
David VanderYacht, Assistant Superintendent, spoke how over time our enrollment at our
elementary schools have become unbalanced. David provided a summary of ways to potentially
adjust boundaries to reduce enrollment at Isom Elementary and Bernice Vossbeck Elementary.
Teaching and Learning
• Re-Opening/Recovery Planning
Elizabeth Hamming shared plans for the 2021-2022 school year that will help identify student
needs and address gaps that are evident in student learning. Elizabeth and principals will
continue to work together and share updates as they get ready to re-open in the fall. Elizabeth
shared how we will share re-opening plans with OSPI in academics and wellbeing tools.

Finance
• Budget Update - March
The Board reviewed information on the budget for March containing a summary of financial
status, enrollment, general fund comparative, and revenues and expenditures.
9. Board Workshop
• Strategic Priorities
The Board reviewed an updated draft of the 2021-2024 Strategic Priorities and discussed as we
move forward to next year to put a plan in place to identify steps of implementation aligned
with the strategic priorities to ensure all students feel a sense of belonging, equity, closing
achievement gaps, and preparing for life beyond high school.
•

Superintendent Transition
Steve Jilk, Board President, and CJ Costanti, Board Director, provided information on their
recent meetings with principals and district administration, and Northwest Leadership
Associates. Jim Frey shared a draft timeline of the superintendent transition and the
engagement with Northwest Leadership Association to recruit for an interim superintendent
and then a permanent superintendent.

9. Action Items
• Resolution No. 03-21 – Emergency Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
The Board reviewed this procedure that prevents students from being impacted by unforeseen
disruptions to coursework and assessments.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve Resolution No. 03-21 seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice
vote.
• Resolution No. 04-21 – Capital Projects Fund Extension
The Board reviewed the required budget extension for levy projects.
CJ Costanti motioned to approve Resolution No. 04-21 seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by voice
vote.
• Resolution No. 05-21 – Establish Custodial Fund
The Board reviewed the need to establish a custodial fund for a private purpose funds grant.
David Vis motioned to approve Resolution No. 05-21 seconded by CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice
vote.
• Resolution No. 06-21 – Establish Imprest Checking Account
The Board reviewed the need for an imprest checking account for Family Community Services.
David Vis motioned to approve Resolution No. 06-21 seconded CJ Costanti. Motion carried by voice vote.
10. Policy
11. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:22 P.M.

12. Executive Session (30 minutes)
The Board discussed negotiation schedules and the process for superintendent search.
13. Adjourn Executive Session
Executive Session adjourned at 8:52 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Steve Jilk
President

LYNDEN S CHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
April 8, 2021
April 22, 2021

New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Na me

Location

Position

FTE

E ffective

C omments

FTE
1.0

E ffective
21.22 SY

.60

21.22 SY

C omments
.30 FTE added
continuing
.30 FTE added
continuing

Hr s.

E ffective

C omments

Hr s.

E ffective

C omments

C omments
Maternity Leave
Unpaid leave of
absence
Unpaid leave of
absence

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Na me
Ohligschlager, Amy

Loc ation
LMS

Baer, Ashley

Lynden
Academy

Position
PE/Health
Teacher
Teacher

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Na me

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Na me

Location

Position

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Na me
Verhaaren, Ashley
VanderGriend, Alivia

Loc ation
Fisher
BVE

Position
Teacher
Teacher

FTE
1.0
1.0

E ffective
4.12 – 6.16.21
5.17 – 5.28.21

VanBeek, Shelli

Fisher

Teacher

.40

21.222 SY

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Na me

Loc ation

Position

Hr s.

E ffective

C omments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Na me
Lee, Shirley
Rogers, Jane
Stevenson, Melissa
Norman, Jarid

Loc ation
BVE
PS & LA
LMS
LMS

Position
PE Teacher
SLP
Sped Teacher
Teacher

FTE
.70
1.0
1.0
1.0

E ffective
6.16.21
6.16.21
6.16.21
4.1.21

Frey, James

District

Superintendent

1.0

6.30.21

C omments
Retirement
Retirement
Resignation
On LOA, now
resigning
Resignation

E ffective
6.16.21
6.16.21
6.16.21
4.21.21
6.16.21
6.23.21

C omments
Resignation
Resignation
Retirement
Resignation
Retirement
Resignation

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Na me
Oostra, Erica
Varner, Elijah
Gibb, Stephen
Sandland, Michelle
Parker, Judy
Swendt, Donna

Loc ation
Isom
LHS
LHS
Isom
LMS
Fisher

Position
Para Ed
Para Ed
Para Ed
Para Ed
Noon Supv
Office
Personnel

Hr s.
6.0
6.0
6.0
6.0
1.5
8.0

S upplemental Assignments
Na me
Paoli, Megan
Zoerink, Amber

Loc ation
LHS
LHS

Position
Asst Coach Fastpitch
Girls Asst Tennis Coach

E ffective
3.22.21
3.22 – 5.7.21

McKee, Travis

LHS

Girls Asst Tennis Coach

3.22 – 5.7.21

Newcomb, Timothy
Varner, Elijah
Polinder, Katie

LHS
LHS
LHS

Athletic Assistant
Athletic Assistant
Athletic Assistant

3.22 – 5.7.21
3.22 – 5.7.21
3.22 – 5.7.21

C omments
Replaces Kleindell
Temporary replacement
for Dickson/Eschbach
Leave replacement for
Denniston
Girls Tennis
Track and Field
Girls Golf

Position
Asst Coach Girls
Tennis

E ffective
11.18.20

C omments
Resignation

S upplemental Resignations
Na me
Eschbach, Isabelle

Loc ation
LHS

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
a nd the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

