BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 26, 2010
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session August 26, 2010 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.
OPENING ITEMS
At 7:00 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Scott Stockburger, President Ken Gass, Superintendent Greg
Baker and recorder Nancy Merry. Directors Steve Smith and Ann Whitmyer were excused.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded approval of the consent agenda. The
motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of August 3, 2010 Special School Board Meeting and Public Hearing.
Action on the minutes of August 12, 2010 Regular School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, August 13, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, August 20, 2010

($127,380.00)
($39,450.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, August 13, 2010

($788,404.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, August 13, 2010
WCIP, investment, August 20, 2010

$20,660.00
$8,350.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, August 13, 2010

$28,875.00

PRIVATE PURPOSE TRUST FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, August 13, 2010

($526.43)

School Board Minutes
August 26, 2010
Page 2 of 4

Personal Services Contracts
a) Marcia Pedersen to administer and score performance tests.
b) Mike Tuben to perform supplementary psychometric services.
c) World Language interpreters as submitted.
d) Catherine Ousselin to provide Web 2.0 training at Sehome High School.
Contracts
a) Work Study Contract for 2010–11 school year between Bellingham School District and
Western Washington University.
b) Work Study Contract for 2010–11 school year between Bellingham School District and
Whatcom Community College.
Award of Bid
Award bid for Bellingham High School yearbooks to Premier Graphics.
Student Trips
a) Lowell Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School, September 29–October 2, 2010.
b) Sehome High School Cross Country Team to participate in an invitational meet in
Missoula, Montana on September 16–19, 2010. This replaces the September 24, 2010 trip
previously approved to Boise, Idaho.
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Kelly Bashaw reported attending the ice cream social for Dr. Baker and his family on Aug. 25.
Scott Stockburger met with Ken Gass and Greg Baker to review Dr. Baker’s entry plan and the
agenda for the current Board meeting. They were joined by several members of the executive
team. He has also been reading the book Drive by Daniel Pink and would be interested in
learning how principals and the administrative staff will use the information in the book in their
work. Dr. Stockburger has heard from many citizens who have expressed support for the
supplemental levy approved by the Board at the August 3 Special Meeting.
Ken Gass attended the ice cream social for Dr. Baker and his family and met with Dr. Baker and
Scott Stockburger to review the agenda for the Board meeting. Along with other District staff,
Dr. Gass attended the City Club luncheon. Dr. Jim Taylor, University of San Francisco,
discussed the pros and cons of Race to the Top. Randy Dorn, State Superintendent of Public
Instruction; Linda Quinn, Ferndale School District superintendent; and Greg Baker, Bellingham
School District superintendent, served on a panel to respond to questions.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Greg Baker updated the Board on his Entry Plan. He has joined many teachers and
administrators as they have been engaged in learning over the summer. He has also met
individually with every principal and assistant principal. On a community basis, he has met with
the Chief of Police, Sterling Meadows families, and Representative Kelli Linville. He

School Board Minutes
August 26, 2010
Page 3 of 4

participated in a fundraiser for Big Brothers/Big Sisters and attended a City Club meeting which
included conversation about school reform and early childhood education. He thanked the Board
of Directors and the Bellingham Public School Foundation for hosting an ice cream social to
introduce him and his family to the community.
Dr. Baker indicated there was no new information on the state budget.
On August 31, the state will release the state achievement scores. The District has received some
preliminary information, which we are starting to review and analyze. A full report will be
presented to the Board at a later date.
Upcoming dates:
• August 30: New Teacher Orientation at 8 a.m. in the Board Room
• September 2: Back to School All Staff Kick Off at 7 a.m. at Bellingham High School.
Meeting begins at 8 a.m.
• September 7: First day of school. The Executive Team will be at all schools to welcome
students and parents. They will be joined at some school by local civic and educational
leaders. The School Board is invited to participate at your adopted schools. Dr. Baker
indicated Bellingham Herald reported Kira Cox will follow him on the first day of
school, both as superintendent and as a parent.
Dr. Baker shared an article on e-learning with each Director.
REPORTS
No Reports
ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 18–10, Final Acceptance of Seismic Renovation Project at Whatcom Middle
School
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Resolution 18–10,
Final Acceptance of Seismic Renovation Project at Whatcom Middle School. Assistant
Superintendent Ron Cowan explained the purpose of this resolution. The motion carried
unanimously.
Resolution 19–10, Final Acceptance of Seismic Renovation Project at Lowell Elementary
School
Kelly Bashaw moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve Resolution 19–10,
Final Acceptance of Seismic Renovation Project at Lowell Elementary School. The motion
carried unanimously.

School Board Minutes
August 26, 2010
Page 4 of 4

Whatcom Middle School Architectural and Engineering Services
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion for the architectural and
engineering services for Whatcom Middle School to Dykeman, Inc. The motion carried
unanimously.
Adoption of Curriculum
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve adoption of
SpringBoard as a middle school literature and language arts program, and Handwriting Without
Tears as a handwriting program for primary students. Jim Facciano, director of Curriculum and
Instructional Technology and Libraries, reviewed the process used to reach the recommendation
for these two curricula. After a year of study and review, Handwriting Without Tears is the final
recommendation of the district’s Elementary Literacy Advisory Committee. Mr. Facciano
introduced Karen Otterholt, a kindergarten teacher at Roosevelt Elementary School, who was
instrumental in recommending Handwriting Without Tears. The Secondary Language Arts
Adoption Committee recommended the College Board’s language arts curriculum SpringBoard
following two years of curriculum review and alignment work. The motion carried unanimously.
Policy 5146, Salary Schedule for Non-Represented Extracurricular Activity Positions
According to Nora Klewiada, executive director of Human Resources, the Board of Directors
must review and approve this policy annually. Due to the Budget Savings Plan, there are no
changes to this policy. Point values and stipend amounts remain the same as in 2009–10.
Therefore, this policy is being submitted for approval without a first reading. Dr. Stockburger
moved and Ms. Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Policy 5146, Salary Schedule for NonRepresented Extracurricular Activity Positions. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Ms. Bashaw moved and Dr. Stockburger seconded the motion to approve the personnel
recommendations as presented. The motion carried unanimously. Nora Klewiada highlighted the
retirement of three long-time district staff: Terri Inge, principal’s secretary at Kulshan Middle
School; and Donna Clark and Jill Payne, both bus drivers.
CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:40 p.m.

