BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 14, 2010
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session October 14, 2010 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.
OPENING ITEMS
At 6:30 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ann Whitmyer, President Ken
Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Executive Session
At 6:30 p.m. President Ken Gass adjourned the regular meeting to begin executive session. The
purpose of the executive session was to discuss collective bargaining agreements and land
acquisition. Dr. Gass announced the regular session would reconvene at 7:00 p.m.
At 7:10 p.m., Dr. Gass reconvened the regular session.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Kelly Bashaw moved and Ann Whitmyer seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of September 23, 2010 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, September 30, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, October 8, 2010

($381,755.00)
($45,750.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, September 30, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, October 8, 2010

($221,655.00)
($223,465.00)

School Board Minutes
October 14, 2010
Page 2 of 6

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, September 30, 2010
WCIP, investment, October 8, 2010

$33,880.00
$87,990.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, September 30, 2010
WCIP, investment, October 8, 2010

($89,115.00)
$54,739.00

TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FUND
WCIP, investment, September 30, 2010

$267,535.00

Personal Services Contracts
a) World Language interpreters for the 2010–11 school year as follows:
a. Paz Patricia Curtis, Spanish
b. Julieta Friant, Spanish
c. Ashley Griffith, Thai
d. Lindsay MacDonald, Spanish
e. Reena Rughani, Punjabi/Hindi/Gujarati
f. Amanda Schroeder, Spanish
g. Belen Saturay, Tagalog
b) Richard Lewis to provide home and hospital tutoring on an as-needed basis during the
2010–11 school year.
c) Amberjoy HauserCoble to 1) serve as a sign language interpreter for a staff member and
2) to serve as a sign language interpreter on an as-needed basis for families and for public
events from October 2010–June 2011.
d) Leah Sauser to provide writing support for the Communications and Community
Relations Department.
e) Cindy Minkler to serve as a piano accompanist for the Roosevelt Elementary School
choir from September 2010–June 2011.
f) Christopher Seal and Paul Wykes to provider routing/scheduling support to the
Transportation Department during September 2010.
g) Stephen Barnes to serve as musical director for the Bellingham High School theatrical
production of Grease from October 1–December 5, 2010.
h) Russ Nelson and Nathaniel Vandermay to serve as technical advisors/supervisors of
rental events for the Bellingham High School theater after regular school hours for the
2010–11 school year.
i) Lillian Hale and Cory Lund to serve as tutor trainers for the 2010–11 school year.
j) John Lehni to provide professional services in the “Interim Alternative Educational
Setting (IAES)” program, as needed.
k) Christine Moore-Attebery to provide speech-language evaluations on an as-needed basis
for special support and as requested by the Director of Special Education, during the
2010–11 school year.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations as submitted.

School Board Minutes
October 14, 2010
Page 3 of 6

Contracts
a) Statement of Understanding between Seattle Pacific University and Bellingham School
District for field experience in teacher education, school administration and school
counseling.
b) Contract with Sea Mar/Visions and Bellingham School District to provide services for
students for the 2010–11 school year.
c) Cooperative Agreement for the Health Care Services Program with Whatcom County
School Districts for the 2010–11 school year.
Out-of-State Travel
a) Two Bellingham High School administrators to attend the NASSP Conference in San
Francisco, California, February 24–27, 2011.
b) Nine Fairhaven Middle School staff to attend the National Middle School Conference in
Baltimore, Maryland, November 3–7, 2010.
c) Three Options High School staff to attend the Individual Learning Plan Project Fall
Institute in Madison, Wisconsin, November 8, 2010.
d) A Sehome High School staff member to attend a workshop sponsored by the American
Vacuum Society in Albuquerque, New Mexico, October 18–19, 2010.
e) A member of the Buildings and Grounds staff to attend the EPA Indoor Air Quality Tools
for Schools Symposium in Washington D.C., January 12–16, 2011.
Student Trips
a) Columbia Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School Ecosystem Explorations Program, April 20–22, 2011.
b) Roosevelt Elementary School 5th grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School Ecosystem Explorations Program, May 9–11, 2011.
c) The Sehome High School choir to participate in a concert tour to Anaheim, California,
May 21–23, 2011.
d) The Sehome High School DECA Club to participate in the Washington DECA Fall
Leadership Conference in Bellevue, Washington, October 24–26, 2010.
e) The Squalicum High School Gear-Up students to attend the Washington State University
Preview weekend in Seattle, Washington, October 29–31, 2010.
f) The Squalicum High School Jazz Band to compete in the Lionel Hampton Jazz Festival
at the University of Idaho in Moscow, Idaho, February 25–27, 2011.
g) The Squalicum High School volleyball team to compete in a tournament at Wenatchee
High School in Wenatchee, Washington, October 15–17, 2010.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Kelly Bashaw attended the WSSDA Regional meeting and participated in the Board visit to
Bellingham High School. She was impressed with the caring and compassion shown by the staff.
Bashaw also participated in a meeting for the supplemental levy, saw the movie “Waiting for
Superman,” and attended the celebration for Wade King Elementary School becoming an
International Baccalaureate authorized PYP school.

School Board Minutes
October 14, 2010
Page 4 of 6

Scott Stockburger visited Bellingham High School during the School Board’s visit to the school.
He also attended a very exciting Bellingham High School vs. Sehome High School Girls’ Varsity
soccer game.
Ann Whitmyer enjoyed her visit to Bellingham High School and learning how the school is
supporting struggling students in a variety of ways. The school also has a program, “College in
High School,” enabling students to earn dual high school and college credits while still attending
high school. Whitmyer also participated in the Wade King Elementary School International
Baccalaureate authorization celebration and attended the Sehome High School freshman evening
that focused on dropout interventions. Ms. Whitmyer also attended Larrabee Elementary
School’s Curriculum Night.
Steve Smith attended the Board’s visit to Bellingham High School and the Wade King
Elementary School International Baccalaureate authorization celebration. Dr. Smith also
attended a fun run at Happy Valley Elementary School.
Ken Gass commented that he was very impressed with how Bellingham High School is
addressing their dropout issue. Dr. Gass also joined other Board members at the WSSDA
Regional Meeting in Anacortes on September 28, 2010.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Dr. Greg Baker gave an update on the budget. District enrollment is close to projections. The
district is still anticipating approximately $100,000 reduction in state funds. District reserves will
be used to continue programs this year. Next month, the Board will hear the annual financial
summary for 2009–2010.
Superintendent Baker updated the Board on progress of his Entry Plan and his goal of listening
and talking with as many in the community as possible. To this end, he has continued his all-day
school visits and Fitness Fridays. He participated in the all-district professional development day
on October 11; met with Dr. Pinky Nelson, Western Washington University; attended the
WSSDA Regional meeting; met with F.A.C.E.S., comprised of parents of autistic students; and
participated in the Farm to School Taste Washington lunch at Wade King Elementary School.
Baker also met with leaders from many educational and community organizations, including Mt
Baker Theatre; North Cascades Institute; Nooksack Valley Superintendent Mark Johnson;
Whatcom Educational Credit Union CEO; Brothers and Sisters of Whatcom County; and
Communities in Schools. He has continued meeting with staff and attending school events,
including meeting with physical education specialists, attended the dropout intervention night at
Sehome High School; the collaborative orchestra concert, dinner and silent auction at
Bellingham High School; and met with student representatives from each high school who are
serving on the Superintendent’s Student Advisory Council. Baker was a guest speaker at North
Bellingham Rotary Club and traveled to Boston as a guest speaker at the Urban Superintendents
Program at Harvard University.
Shining Star Awards
Shining Star Awards are presented by the School Board at each meeting to recognize outstanding
accomplishments of students, staff, schools and departments.

School Board Minutes
October 14, 2010
Page 5 of 6

David Baily, manager of the Transportation Department, presented Shining Stars to the
following bus drivers:
• Mark Miller for placing first in the 40th Annual School Bus Driver International Safety
Competition.
• Mark Forslof for being a first place team participant in the Northwest School Bus Roadeo
Safety Competition.
• Rick Johnson for placing second in the individual category of the Northwest School Bus
Roadeo Safety Competition.
Audience
Holly Miller, requested the Board consider adding a parent partnership program for home school
parents. Such a program would bring in additional funds for the district. She also suggested
adding a tuition-based international program for students. A Canadian school has such a program
that charges tuition for international students. She feels it would bring in additional students and
money as well as adding diversity to our district.
Jean Layton questioned the Board about progress in reducing the size of the 6th grade class at
Kulshan Middle School. Nothing has changed since school started; there are still 32 students in
the class. She is concerned that some student will not survive in these large classes.

REPORTS
No reports

ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 22–10, Acceptance of Shuksan Middle School Reconstruction
Ann Whitmyer moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve Resolution 22–10,
Acceptance of Shuksan Middle School Reconstruction. The motion carried unanimously.
Resolution 21–10, Policy Governance
Scott Stockburger moved and Steve Smith seconded the motion to approve Resolution 21–10,
Policy Governance. The Board heard a first reading at the September 23, 2010 School Board
meeting and no changes were recommended. The motion carried unanimously.
Policy Governance GP-3, Board Job Description
Steve Smith moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve Governance Policy
GP-3, Board Job Description. The Board heard a first reading at the September 23, 2010 School
Board meeting and the recommended changes were made. The motion carried unanimously.

School Board Minutes
October 14, 2010
Page 6 of 6

Policy Governance GP-12, Cost of Governance
Steve Smith moved and Ann Whitmyer seconded the motion to approve Governance Policy GP12, Cost of Governance. The Board heard a first reading at the September 23, 2010 School Board
meeting. The only change was to renumber to GP-12, no other changes were made. The motion
carried unanimously.
Policy Governance 7.1, Annual Calendar
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Governance Policy
7.1 Annual Calendar. The Board heard a first reading at the September 23, 2010 School Board
meeting and no changes were recommended. The motion carried unanimously.
Policy Governance Ends 2.1, District Standards for Measuring Academic Competence
The Board heard a first reading of Policy Governance Ends 2.1, District Standards for
Measuring Academic Competence, at the September 23, 2010 School Board meeting. Director
Steve Smith suggested modifications to this Ends statement. The Board supported delaying
adopting Ends 2.1 until the Board could review these changes and discuss further at the October
28, 2010 School Board meeting.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Steve Smith moved and Ann Whitmyer seconded the motion to approve the personnel
recommendations as presented. The motion carried unanimously.

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:50 p.m.

