BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 12, 2010
The Bellingham School Board of Directors met in regular session August 12, 2010 in the Board
Room of the Administration Building.

OPENING ITEMS
At 5:30 p.m. President Ken Gass called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ann Whitmyer, President Ken
Gass, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
Executive Session
At 5:30 p.m. Ken Gass moved to begin executive session. The purpose of the executive session
was collective bargaining agreements.
The regular meeting was reconvened at 7:10 p.m.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
Ann Whitmyer moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of the July 15, 2010 Regular School Board Meeting.
Action on the minutes of the July 17, 2010 Special School Board Meeting.
Action on the minutes of the July 21, 2010 Special School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, July 16, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, July 23, 2010
WCIP, investment, July 30, 2010

($303,580.00)
($204,675.00)
$807,300.00

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, withdrawal, July 16, 2010
WCIP, investment, July 23,2010

($676,045.00)
$10,960.00

School Board Minutes
August 12, 2010
Page 2 of 4
WCIP, withdrawal, July 30, 2010

($645,430.00)

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, July 16, 2010
WCIP, investment, July 30, 2010

$7,670.00
$3,200.00

ASB FUND
WCIP, investment, July 16, 2010
WCIP, withdrawal, July 30, 2010

$2,338.00
($33,365.00)

TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, July 23, 2010

($400.00)

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll
Action on expenditures and payroll as submitted and approved by the Auditing Committee.
Personal Services Contracts
a) An extension of a personal services contract for Darlene Varang to provide transfinder
training to Transportation Department staff through August 31, 2010.
Approval of Surplus Equipment, Supplies, Furniture and Electronics
Action on surplus equipment, supplies, furniture and electronics as submitted.
Approval of Bid Award
Action to select Alternate #3C, Mannington Carpet, for Cordata Elementary School.
Approval of Call for Bids
Action to call for bids for snacks and beverages for Food Service and vending machines for the
2010–11 school year.
Approval for Student Trip
Sehome High School girls’ swim team to travel to Victoria, British Columbia for their annual
training, August 25–27, 2010.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Steve Smith and Scott Stockburger met with Superintendent Baker to review the agenda for the
School Board meeting.
Ann Whitmyer joined a group of educators to hear Congressman Rick Larsen explain details of a
new law being presented for a vote on August 10. Larsen also responded to questions about how
these funds could be used, if approved.
Ken Gass announced to the Board that the WSSDA Regional Meeting will be held September 28
at 6 p.m. in Anacortes.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report

School Board Minutes
August 12, 2010
Page 3 of 4

Dr. Greg Baker summarized some of his activities since July 15. He has met with presidents of
two of our higher education partners, several regional superintendents, the co-chairs of Parent
Advisory Committee, several principals, visited the Maintenance Department, and met with
school secretaries at their annual secretaries meeting. Dr. Baker also attended a workshop for
new superintendents in Olympia and a workshop on Response to Intervention with other district
staff in Seattle.
Superintendent Baker gave an update on the federal and state budgets as they relate to funding
education. The federal government has increased funding for education by approximately $10
billion. These funds can be used to support educational jobs in the 2010–11 school year and will
be distributed to states based on population. The states can distribute these funds based on their
primary funding formula or districts’ relative share of federal Title I funds. It is estimated these
funds will save an estimated 3,300 jobs in Washington alone. The application process is being
streamlined so states can submit applications within days.
Next week, administrators will attend a Leadership Conference on Tuesday followed by a
workshop for instructional staff on Wednesday for training on best practices, Response to
Intervention, and Professional Learning Communities.
The Board was also asked to “adopt” their schools for the 2010–11 school year at the conclusion
of the Board meeting. Board members spend time at their adopted schools throughout the year,
making a special effort to get to know staff and attend special events.
Baker asked Deputy Superintendent Karst Brandsma to review new curriculum being planned.
Mr. Brandsma introduced Jim Facciano, director of Curriculum and Instructional Technologies,
who gave the Board an update on SpringBoard and Handwriting Without Tears. SpringBoard is
the recommended choice for language arts and is a pre-AP program that is suitable for all
students. Handwriting Without Tears is also called the ball and stick approach. Both curriculums
will be submitted to the Board for approval at the August 26 School Board meeting. Mr.
Facciano is also sponsoring an open house to share this information with the community and
parents. After receiving Board approval, staff training will begin with implementation of both
curriculums planned for the 2010–11 school year.

Audience
Tony Macy represents a line of products that is good or better than what the district is currently
using at a savings. His bid was rejected and he questioned the process the district uses to award
bids. Dr. Gass recommended he speak with Ron Cowan.
Dorcie Wellman, a district paraeducator, is a member of BASE and serves on their bargaining
team. Wellman reported that BASE represents over 300 classified members who go above and
beyond their job description. Wellman said BASE has been in negotiations with the district over
the last few months and have been unable to reach an agreement. She urged the district to reach a
quick settlement on the collective bargaining agreement. Ms. Wellman emphasized that with
many of the members facing a reduction of hours and an increase in health costs, an increase in

School Board Minutes
August 12, 2010
Page 4 of 4

salaries is vital. BASE has filed for mediation and they are asking for a reasonable counter
proposal to avoid mediation.

REPORTS
No reports

ACTION ITEMS
Resolution 17–10, Acceptance of High Roof Structural Replacement and Upper
Playground Retaining Wall Replacement at Lowell Elementary School
Scott Stockburger moved and Kelly Bashaw seconded the motion to approve Resolution 17–10,
Acceptance of High Roof Structural Replacement and Upper Playground Retaining Wall
Replacement at Lowell Elementary School. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Personnel Recommendations
Ann Whitmyer moved and Scott Stockburger seconded the motion to approve the personnel
recommendations as presented. The motion carried unanimously. Nora Klewiada highlighted the
retirement of Charlotte Morin, a paraeducator at Sehome High School, who is retiring at the end
of the 2010–11 school year.

CLOSING ITEMS
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:50 p.m.

