May 12, 2016
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 5:30 P.M. Board members in attendance were Brian Johnson, Steve Jilk, Mike Haveman,
Kevin Burke, and Dominic Shiu. Student Director Carson Smith was in attendance and Tore Olson was absent and
excused.
2. Executive Session
The board engaged in a discussion with legal counsel regarding potential litigation.
3. Adjourn Executive Session
Executive Session adjourned at 6:35 P.M.
Jim Frey asked the student in the audience to introduce herself. Elise Kooiman, 11 th grade student, explained to
the board that she is in attendance to meet a requirement in her Running Start program “Intro to Education”
class at Whatcom Community College.
4. Good News


Bernice Vossbeck received the 2015 Washington Achievement Award for High Progress! Award winners
are selected using the State Board of Education Revised Achievement Index and are based on statewide
assessment data for the three previous years.



Fisher PTA sold cookie dough and raised more than $13,000 to use towards the new Fisher playground.
Fisher thanks the families and community members who helped support the fundraiser.



Isom Elementary’s English Language Learners (ELL) Program celebrated with the families and staff
involved in the program. The program encourages that English be spoken and read in the household. For
every 20 minutes students read, they earned a chance to be entered in a raffle. At the last meeting, 3
bicycles were awarded.



Lynden Middle School successfully completed Strengthening Families Program (SFP). Six families
participated along with amazing support staff and LHS student volunteers. Being able to facilitate and run
two SFP's would not be possible without the Lynden School District advocates that support and promote
quality best practice programs for our students and families.



Lynden Academy held a Parent Workshop attended by 35 families. Parents and teachers spent significant
time sharing home-based and school-based teaching and learning strategies and discussed how to better
use assessment data. Parents and teachers also enjoyed making crafts while their children enjoyed fun
activities with older LA students.



Jobs for America's Graduates (JAG) students competed in the state Career Development Conference and
earned awards in the interviewing competition. Kaylee Kooch earned a silver medal and Eros Gonzalez
earned a bronze award



Lynden High School art student, Angel Gomez entered an art piece entitled "City of Thoughts" into the
2016 Congressional Art Competition for Washington's First District. The annual Congressional Art
Competition began in 1982 and involves hundreds of thousands of high school students from across the
nation. The winning art piece is displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., as
part of a year-long national exhibition. Congresswoman Suzan DelBene announced Angel as the 2nd
runner-up, which is outstanding. Angel plans to enter the competition again next year.



Lynden High School science teacher, Mari Herbert was selected to participate in the Maury Project
Workshop with assistance from the U.S. Navy, State University of New York, National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration. This is a two-week teacher professional development designed for precollege
teachers of science who teach the teaching of, units with significant oceanography content.



The Lynden International Masonic Lodge announced that Lynden Middle School counselor, Coral Bartlett
has been awarded their Educator of the Year Award for 2015/2016. This is a nomination amongst peers
with the need to meet 6 set criteria's.

5. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 April 26, 2016 – Special Meeting
 April 28, 2016 – Work Session
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the April 26, 2016 meeting minutes seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the April 28, 2016 meeting minutes seconded by Dominic Shiu. Motion carried by
voice vote.
6. Consent Agenda
 2015-16 General Fund $305,308.41 Warrants 40910 – 41017 dated April 29, 2016
 2015-16 Capital Projects $2,931.00 Warrants 41018 – 41018 dated April 29, 2016
 2015-16 ASB Fund $36,021.91 Warrants 41019 – 41036 dated April 29, 2016
 2015-16 GF ACH $2,878.91 Warrants 151600289 – 151600309 dated April 29, 2016
 Transportation Fund – None
 Personnel Action Items 5.12.16
 Resolution #03-16 – WIAA Membership
Mike Haveman motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Steve Jilk. Motion carried by voice vote.
7. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
8. Reports
 Superintendent
Lynden Middle School Value Engineering & Design Development
Jim Frey provided a value engineering report reviewed by Construction Services Group (CSG) for Lynden
Middle School. The report offers recommendations and suggestions to improve efficiency, lower cost,
and improve constructability. The board discussed the valuation process with David King of King
Architecture. Jim explained the design development process and design contingencies.
Mike Haveman motioned to approve Lynden Middle School Value Engineering seconded by Steve Jilk. Motion
carried 4 to 1.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve Lynden Middle School Design Development seconded by Mike Haveman. Motion
carried by voice vote.



Teaching and Learning
Student Performance Data
Elizabeth Hamming presented grades 6-11 student assessment performance data for Smarter
Balanced testing in English language arts (ELA) and math comparison at State and District levels. The
board discussed the comparisons and future data use.



Finance and Operations
2016-2017 Budget Update
The board read a summary regarding the 2016-2017 Budget Update process and next steps.

9. Board Workshop
None at this meeting.
10. Action Items
 Surplus
The board discussed the start of Fisher Elementary playground removal, beginning with the play shed.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve to surplus the Fisher Elementary play shed seconded by Mike Haveman. Motion
carried by voice vote.
11. Policy
 Policy #2161 – Special Education and Related Services for Eligible Students
 Policy #3246 – Restraint, Isolation and Other Uses of Reasonable Force
After discussion of the policies, the board agreed to approve the policies on the first reading with
suggested edits.
Steve Jilk motioned to approve Policies #2161 & #3246 seconded by Kevin Burke. Motion carried by voice vote.
12. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 P.M.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
May 12, 2016
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Wright, Michelle

Location
BVE

Brown, Kathryn
Moore, Ashley

LMS
TBD

Position
5th Grade
Teacher
Sped Teacher
Sped Pre School
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
16.17 SY

Comments
New position

1.0
1.0

16.17 SY
16.17 SY

Replaces Petersen
Replaces Salminen

FTE

Effective

Comments

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Comments
Replacing Williamson
while on leave
Replacing Mehlhoff
while on leave

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Mehlhoff, Lois

Location
LHS

Position
Secretary 3

Hrs.
8.0

Effective
16.17 SY

Ward, Cynthia

LMS

Secretary 3

8.00

16.17 SY

Position

FTE

Effective

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Comments

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Banks, Jo-Anne
Mehlhoff, Lois

Location
Transp.
LMS

Position
Bus Driver
Secretary 3

Hrs.
6.25
8.0

Effective
8.31 – 10.30.16
16.17 SY

Ward, Cynthia

Secty 2

LMS

6.0

16.17 SY

Jernberg, Heidi
Powell, Linda

Para
Para

Isom
BVE

6.0
5.67

16.17 SY
16.17 SY

1

Comments
Personal Unpaid Leave
Personal Leave to
accept 1 year leave
position at LHS
replacing Williamson
Personal Leave to
accept 1 year leave
position at LHS
replacing Mehlhoff
2nd year personal leave
Personal Leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Ramey, Sheran

Location
BVE

Position
Music
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
1.31.17

Comments
Retirement

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Lysen, Wilma
Fischer, Shanon

Location
Isom
LMS

Position
Para
Para

Hrs.
6.25
6.0

Effective
6.16.16
4.21.16

Plagerman, Deanne
Plagerman, Deanne

District
District

1.0
2.50

6.16.16
6.16.16

Rodriguez, Janelle
Reilly, Earlene

Fisher
Transp.

Mail Carrier
Cook’s
Helper
Para
Bus Driver

Comments
Retirement
Resignation (has been
on personal leave)
Retirement
Retirement

6.0
5.08

5.3.16
6.16.16

Resignation
Retirement

Supplemental Assignments
Name

Location

Position

Effective

Comments

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

