April 28, 2016
School Board Meeting – Work Session
Minutes
Lynden Middle School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:31P.M. Board members in attendance were Brian Johnson, Steve Jilk, Mike Haveman,
Kevin Burke, and Dominic Shiu. Student Director Carson Smith was in attendance and Tore Olson was absent and
excused.
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 Meeting Minutes April 14, 2016
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Mike Haveman. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
 2015-16 General Fund $277,589.65 Warrants 40768 through 40867 Dated April 15, 2016
 2015-16 Capital Projects $106,099.09 Warrants 40564 through 40868 Dated April 15, 2016
 2015-16 ASB Fund $4,410.28 Warrants 40871 through 40876 Dated April 15, 2016
 GF ACH $2,252.44 Warrants 151600271 through 151600287 Dated April 15, 2016
 ASB ACH $31.03 Warrants 151600288 through 151600288 Dated April 15, 2016
 Personnel Action Items – April 28 2016
 International Trip Request – April 28, 2016
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the consent agenda comprising of AP Payroll, Personnel Action Items, and
International Trip Request seconded by Kevin Burke. Kevin Burke requested further information on the Land
Easement. After discussion a second request to approve the Land Easement in the Consent Agenda was
addressed. Steve Jilk motioned to approve the Land Easement seconded by Mike Haveman motion carried 4 to 1,
Kevin Burke opposed.
4. Information from the Audience
Nancy McHarness of Be the One (BTO) mentoring program informed the board of the great work that is
happening in the mentoring program. Nancy shared stories of success and the process of training mentors and
matching of mentors to mentees. Be the One is excited to share the growth of the program and the success it’s
making in the life of students.
5. Finance and Operations
 Budget Update - March
Jim Frey reviewed the March budget with the board and answered questions pertaining to enrollment,
revenues and expenditures of the general fund and summary of the budget status report.
6. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 6:49 P.M.
7. Board Work Session
 Elementary School Improvement Plans (SIP’s)
Jim Frey introduced the Elementary Principals and explained how they will be presenting their School
Improvement Plans (SIP) to the board. Isom Principal, David VanderYacht opened the presentation by
outlining what the principals will share about the work in their schools. Lynden Academy Principal, Chris

Jorgensen and Fisher Principal, Courtney Ross informed the board of success stories based on work done
in their schools in the area of Closing the Achievement Gap. The board engaged in discussion of
intervention options to support individual students.
David shared how the elementary schools use a common support process for students who need more
time and support for assistance in areas of achievement gap, core instruction, and highly capable
curriculum. Bernice Vossbeck Principal, Becky Midboe shared a success story of an intervention process
at the highly capable level and how staff had a team intervention group to help the student towards
successful time in the classroom.
David talked about different strategies used for the schools’ focus on instruction through SIOP, 5D
Framework, Science & Math Fellows, TPEP, and PLC’s. The board asked questions of how each school
utilizes these tools for evaluation and growth opportunities.
David explained the implementation of the Professional Learning Community and how principals and
teachers are learning how to ensure a guaranteed and sustainable curriculum. The board asked about
challenges in resources shared in common areas of professional learning time and the clarity of purpose;
balance of district, school, team goal focus and the implementation of carrying out the goals within the
professional learning community team.
Jim Frey summarized the purpose of the SIP discussion and recognized the great work that is taking
place in the elementary schools with dedicated staff.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
April 28, 2016
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name
Peach, Anne Marie

Location
BVE

Position
4th Gr. Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
16.17 SY

Bocci, Amy
Allison, Janelle
Gillig, Jodel
Mitchell, Ryan
Furrer, Hailey
Clawson, Cory
Prosser, Breauna

BVE
Isom
Isom
Isom
Fisher
Fisher
Fisher

Teacher
2nd Gr. Teacher
5th Gr. Teacher
5th Gr. Teacher
3rd Gr. Teacher
5th Gr. Teacher
3rd Gr. Teacher

1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0

16.17 SY
16.17 SY
16.17 SY
16.17 SY
16.17 SY
16.17 SY
16.17 SY

Comments
Replaces Abercrombie
who moved to 1st grade
Grade TBD
New position
Replaces Cornelsen
New position
New position
New position
Replaces Munkres who
moved to 2nd grade

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
Korthuis, Duane

Location
LHS

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
16.17 SY

Comments
Increase in FTE to
include District First Aid
and Training
Replaces VanderYacht

McClure, Patrick

Isom

Principal

1.0

7.1.16

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Hrs.
9.0
per
week
7.5
per
week

Effective
4.1 – 6.16.16

Comments
Non Continuing

4.1 – 6.16.16

Non Continuing

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Elias, Tami

Location
BVE

Position
Para Ed

Oliver, Jodi

BVE

Para Ed

1

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Position
Para Ed

Hrs.
3.0

Effective
16.17 SY

Comments
2nd Year, Personal
Leave of Absence

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Haveman, Patricia

Location
Isom

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
Cornelsen, Janis

Location
Isom

Position
Teacher

FTE
1.0

Effective
6.16.16

Comments
Retirement

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Taeckens, Adam

Location
LHS

Position
Wrestling Head Coach

Effective
11.14.16

Comments
Replaces Moore

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

