January 28, 2016
School Board Meeting – Work Session
Minutes
Lynden Middle School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:30 P.M. Board members in attendance were Mike Haveman, Brian Johnson, Kevin
Burke, and Dominic Shiu. Student Directors; Tore Olson and Carson Smith. Steve Jilk was absent and excused.
Director of Teaching and Learning, Elizabeth Hamming
2. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 Meeting Minutes January 14, 2016
Kevin Burke motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Mike Haveman. Motion carried by voice vote.
3. Consent Agenda
 2015-16 General Fund $385,972.25 Warrants 39879 through 39977 Dated January 15, 2016
 2015-16 ASB Fund $9,491.74 Warrants 39978 through 39993 Dated January 15, 2016
 GF ACH $1,128.79 Warrants 151600150 through 151600163 Dated January 15, 2016
 Personnel Action Items – January 28, 2016
 Donations – January 28, 2016
 Overnight Trip Requests – January 28, 2016
4. Information from the Audience
None at this meeting.
5. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 6:34 P.M.
6. Board Work Session
 CTE – Family & Consumer Sciences Program
Kent Victor introduced the CTE Family & Consumer Sciences Program and teachers Tiffany Sahagian,
Stacey Anderson, and Karen Pehl. A video was shared about all the activities happening the electives of
Culinary Foundations, Life on Your Own, Fashion & Apparel, Impact, and Family Health. Mrs. Pehl
explained the progression of these programs and how their projects are community based. Mrs.
Sahagian gave an example of the efforts of the Impact club with fundraising and giving back to their
schools and world-wide. Students gave the board a summary of what Family & Consumer Science classes
they are involved in and what inspires them to help others. Karen gave examples of life skills being
taught. The students praised the life skills being taught and how important it is for their future and has
made a difference in their outlook of their futures. Mrs. Sahagian shared the vision on the upcoming
Health II class. The board questioned students on their experiences of fundraising and donating and
what they took away from their Life Skills classes.


CTE – Family & Consumer Sciences Program
Jim Frey provided the board with recent changes to the schematic design of Fisher Elementary. Terry
Brown of Zervas and Steve Lee of Studio Meng Strazzara reviewed plan locations of classrooms,
common areas, and transportation drop-off/pick-up. A timeline projection for each phase of the
project was discussed.



WSSDA Annual Conference Topics
The board discussed what topics from the WSSDA conference they would like to focus on. Some of
the topics include Technology, Board Efficiency, Value of Balanced Governance Approach, Teaching
& Learning/Student Related Issues, District Business/Financials, Emergency Events and Protocol. The
student directors relayed that their time on the board has been the experience they expected and
suggested the board focus on getting students ready for career introduction and bring in more
career speakers for student understanding or “job shadowing”.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
January 28, 2016
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE
.20

Effective
1.29 – 6.16.16

Comments
Teaching 1 additional
class, second semester

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name
VanderVeen, Jordan

Location
LHS

Position
Teacher

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Faber. Lydia

Location
Transp

Position
Bus Driver

Hrs.
2.5

Effective
1.25 – 6.16.16

Comments
Student Specific Route
– Non Continuing
New Position –
Technology Shops

Hanson, Kyle

LHS

Para Educator

6.0

2.1.16

Hrs.
2.33

Effective
2.1 – 6.16.16

Comments
Intervention Support
- Literacy

FTE
1.0

Effective
8.29. 16 – 1.26.17

Comments
Personal Leave 1st
semester of the 16/17
school year

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
Boies, Kelly

Location
Isom

Position
Para Educator

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name
Carson, Kristine

Location
LMS

Position
Teacher

1

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name
McKeen, Lisa

Location
LHS

Position
Asst
Principal

FTE
1.0

Effective
6.30.16

Comments
Resignation

Effective
6.16.16

Comments
Retirement

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name
Carson, Robert

Location
LHS

Position
Teacher

Hrs.
1.0

Supplemental Assignments
Name
Clemmer, Erin

Location
LMS

Position
7th Grade Volleyball
Coach

Effective
1.25.16

Comments
Replaces Medcalf

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)
2

