November 10, 2016
School Board Meeting
Minutes
Lynden High School Library
6:30 P.M.
1. Call to Order, Welcome, Pledge of Allegiance and Roll Call
Meeting called to order at 6:30 P.M. Board members in attendance were Brian Johnson, Steve Jilk, Mike Haveman,
Kevin Burke, and Dominic Shiu. Student Directors Katelyn Fullner and Devin Gartner were present.
2. Good News










Since the beginning of Be the One launch in 2013, 94 adults have applied to be mentors. Of those adults,
83 mentored a high school or middle school student for at least one school year. Of those adults, 72
returned for a second year or took on another student (87% retention rate is hue, 50% is average).
Great job by the high school counseling staff and High School and Beyond secretary on a
successful FAFSA/WASFA night. Fifty-three students began the process (49 from LHS, 4 from
other schools - 38 last year). There were 59 helping adults and 11 volunteers.
Tate Hutchins qualified for state cross country. This is the first boy that we have had qualify in over 10
years!
The fall sports teams served lunches to the elementary students. This has been a tradition for at least 15
years The teams also interacted with students during recess. It was a fun time for all.
Lynden High School held their Multicultural Night and had 150 people in attendance. The students who
organized the event were thankful for donations from many area businesses.
The Sports Medicine Club completed their fall blood drive in cooperation with Blood Works
Northwest. Organizer Abbey Snyder and student volunteers helped service 51 donors, including 30 firsttime donors. This drive will benefit 129 patients in the hospital.
Lynden Academy has moved to their new location and are settling in very well. They are thankful for the
many hands that moved them.
The Lynden Chess Club is growing.
Robotics Club is using Google Street View for presentations.

3. Approval of Meeting Minutes
 October 23, 2016
Mike Haveman motioned to approve the meeting minutes seconded by Dominic Shiu. Motion carried by voice
vote.
4. Consent Agenda
• 2016-17 General Fund $244,098.11 Warrants 42476 – 42561 dated October 31, 2016
• 2016-17 Capital Projects $1,402,979.41 Warrants 42562 – 42566 dated October 31, 2016
• 2016-17 ASB Fund $30,392.50 Warrants 42567 – 42612 dated October 31, 2016
• 2016-17 GF ACH $4,830.98 Warrants 161700051 - 1617000067 dated October 31, 2016
• 2016-17 ASB ACH $1,111.78 Warrants 161700068 – 161700071 dated October 31, 2016
• Payroll Warrant 42442 $712.91 dated October 31, 2016
• Payroll Direct Deposits $1,630,894.59 dated October 31, 2016
• Payroll Vendor Warrants 42443 – 42475 $779,185.59 dated October 31, 2016
• Transportation Fund – None
• Personnel Action Items – November 10, 2016
Steve Jilk motioned to approve the consent agenda seconded by Mike Haveman. Motion carried by voice vote.

5. Information from the Audience
Dante Alexander expressed his views on lock down procedures, clear objectives, and debriefing. He spoke of the
term “Rise to the occasion vs. Fall to our training” and options of “go bags”.
6. Reports
 Superintendent
24 Credit Graduation Requirements
Ian Freeman updated the board on committee meetings taking place to accommodate the new state 24
graduation credit requirements. The committee is discussing changing class schedules, the need for
more space, and utilizing mobile space for computer use. The board discussed the implications for
staffing and the types of classes that could possibly be offered.
Student Fees
Jim Frey provided information on student fees and the cost to families for both curricular and cocurricular activities. The board discussed which fees are appropriate for the school district to pay. This
topic will be addressed again after the Legislative Session and during budget planning.
Superintendent Evaluation Process
Jim Frey shared the superintendent evaluation timeline with the board and the process of input and
feedback for the evaluation.


Teaching and Learning
None at this meeting.



Finance and Operations
Budget Update – 2015-2016 End of Year
Patti Fairbanks updated the board on the phases of review and submittal of the F196 2015-2016 end of
year budget. The final numbers of this report will be updated and discussed at the December board
meeting.

7. Board Workshop
 Facilities Priority Needs
David VanderYacht provided an update on a priority list of facility items that reflect the order that we
will consider using additional funds for from the capital bond. Topics were focused around current
projects, safety and security and maintenance, classrooms, and land. The board will move forward and
explore adopting resolutions to move forward with projects.
8. Action Items
None at this meeting

9. Policy
 First Reading
The board discussed the following policies in first reading.
Policy No. 2145 – Suicide Prevention
Policy No. 3122 – Excused and Unexcused Absences
Policy No. 3230 – Student Privacy and Searches
Policy No. 4210 – Regulation of Dangerous Weapons on School Premises
Policy No. 4215 – Use of Tobacco, Nicotine Products and Delivery Devices
Policy No. 4218 – Language Access Plan
It was requested that Policy No. 2145 be further reviewed.
10. Adjourn Meeting
Meeting adjourned at 7:55 P.M.
11. Executive Session/Adjourn Meeting
None at this meeting.

Jim Frey
Superintendent

Brian Johnson
President

LYNDEN SCHOOL DISTRICT
Lynden, WA
Personnel Recommendations
November 10, 2016
New Hire, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

FTE

Effective

Comments

Change in Assignment, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

New Hire, Classified Personnel
Name
Toften, Laura

Location
LHS

Position
Para Ed 2

Hrs.
2.0

Effective
10.26.16

Holleman, Delores

Transp

Bus Driver

1.50

10.31.16

Speer, Aimee

LMS

Nurse

3.0

11.1.16

Comments
New position
supporting ELL
students
McKinney Vento
Route- Non
Continuing
New Position

Change in Assignment, Classified Personnel
Name
VanderHaak, Jewel
Oostra, Erica
Powell, Robin
Winter, Stephanie
Sandland, Michelle
Rothwell, Tiffany

Location
Isom
Isom
Isom
Isom
Isom
Isom

Position
Para Ed – Extended Day
Para Ed – Extended Day
Para Ed – Extended Day
Para Ed – Extended Day
Para Ed – Extended Day
Para Ed – Extended Day

Hrs.
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0

Effective
11.7 – 5.5.17
11.7 – 5.5.17
11.7 – 5.5.17
11.7 – 5.5.17
11.7 – 5.5.17
11.7 – 5.5.17

Comments

Leave of Absence, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

1

Effective

Comments

Leave of Absence, Classified Personnel
Name
Stitt, Jennie
Erickson, Michelle

Location
Fisher
BVE

Position
Para
Para

Hrs.
6
6

Effective
10.31 – 11.18.16
1.23 – 5.11.17

Comments
Medical Leave
Personal Leave

Resignations/Retirements/Terminations, Certificated Personnel
Name

Location

Position

FTE

Effective

Comments

Effective

Comments

Resignations/Retirement/Terminations/Classified Personnel
Name

Location

Position

Hrs.

Supplemental Assignments
Name
McKee, Marcus
Shagren, Trey

Location
LMS
LMS

Position
Asst Girls Basketball
Asst Boys Basketball

Effective
10.31.16
10.31.16

Comments
Replaces Hommes
Replaces Victor

Position

Effective

Comments

Supplemental Resignations
Name

Location

Employment with the district is subject to acceptable outcome of a criminal history records check
and the requirements of RCW 28A.400)

2

