BELLINGHAM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Bellingham, Washington
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
February 9, 2012
The Board of Directors of Bellingham Public Schools met in regular session February 9, 2012 in
the Board Room of the District Office, 1306 Dupont Street, Bellingham, Washington.
OPENING ITEMS
At 7 p.m. President Kelly Bashaw called the regular meeting to order.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Camille Hackler, Steve Smith, Scott Stockburger, Ken Gass, President Kelly
Bashaw, Superintendent Greg Baker and recorder Nancy Merry.
CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS
President Bashaw removed from the Consent Agenda consideration of Policy and Procedure
3131, Student Attendance Area Transfers, and Policy and Procedure 3141, Admission of NonResident Students. With the removal of these two items, Ken Gass moved and Scott Stockburger
seconded approval of the consent agenda. The motion carried unanimously.
Approval of Minutes
Action on the minutes of Jan. 12, 2012 School Board Meeting.
Approval of Investments
Action on investments in accordance with Resolution 13-88.
GENERAL FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, January 13, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, January 20, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, January 31, 2012

($471,700.00)
($232,200.00)
($1,401,000.00)

CAPITAL PROJECTS
WCIP, investment, January 13, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, January 20, 2012
WCIP, investment, January 31, 2012

$78,550.00
($415,430.00)
$16,050.00

DEBT SERVICE FUND
WCIP, investment, January 13, 2012
WCIP, investment, January 20, 2012
WCIP, investment, January 31, 2012

$4,500.00
$2,000.00
$4,400.00

School Board Minutes
February 9, 2012
Page 2 of 5
ASB FUND
WCIP, withdrawal, January 13, 2012
WCIP, withdrawal, January 20, 2012
WCIP, investment, January 31, 2012

($26,440.00)
($8,480.00)
$39,175.00

Uncollectible Accounts
Action to write off uncollectible accounts, as submitted.
Gifts and Donations
Action on gifts and donations, both those valued at $1,000 or greater, and donations received in
2010–2011, as submitted.
Out-of-State Travel
Action on out-of-state travel as follows:
a) Kulshan Middle School staff to attend the National Council of Teachers of English–
Convention of the Conference on College Composition and Communication in St. Louis,
Missouri, March 21–24, 2012.
b) Shuksan Middle School staff to attend the 2012 National Association of Secondary
School Principals Annual Conference and Exposition in Tampa, Florida, March 8–12,
2012.
c) Squalicum High School staff members to participate in a National Link Crew Training in
Aptos, California, March 7–9, 2012.
Student Trips
Action on student trips as follows:
a) Bellingham High School Concert Choir and Showstoppers to participate in a concert tour
and clinic in Portland, Oregon, May 17–19, 2012.
b) Bellingham High School Girls Softball Team to participate in a team building trip to
Camp Lutherwood in Bellingham, Washington, March 2–4, 2012.
c) Columbia Elementary School fifth grade students to attend the North Cascades Institute’s
Mountain School Ecosystem Explorations Program, April 23–25, 2012.
d) Kulshan Middle School eighth grade students to participate in an annual science trip to
San Francisco, California, May 23–26, 2012.
e) Sehome High School Band to participate in a concert tour in Portland, Oregon, May 30–
June 3, 2012.
f) Sehome, Squalicum and Bellingham high school students who qualify to participate in
the International Bridge Building competition in Las Vegas, Nevada, April 28–May 5,
2012.
g) Sehome High School robotics team to participate in two robotic competitions. The
competitions are in Portland Oregon, March 7–10, 2012 and Seattle, Washington, March
21–24, 2012.
h) Squalicum High School Future Business Leaders of America to attend the state
conference in Seattle, Washington, April 11–14, 2012.
i) Squalicum High School biology/environmental science students to attend the North
Cascades Institute’s Mountain School, May 16–20, 2012.

School Board Minutes
February 9, 2012
Page 3 of 5
Resolutions and Contracts
Action on resolutions as follows:
a) Resolution 2–12, Acceptance of Cordata Elementary School Project
b) Resolution 3–12, Cancellation of Stale-dated Checks
Administrative Policies and Procedures
Action on Administrative Policies and Procedures as follows:
a) Policy 6000, Budget Preparation, Adoption and Implementation (revised)
b) Policy 6021, Interfund Loans (new)
c) Policy 6500, Risk Management (new)
d) Policy 6810, Energy Management/Education (revised)
e) Policy 6882, Sale of Real Property (new)
Personal Services Contracts
Action on personal services contracts as follows:
a) Susan Alexander to support the Highly Capable Learners Program at Lowell Elementary
School from November 2011 through June 2012.
b) Thomas Race to serve as a tutor from February through June 2012.
c) Olena Rypich to work as a Communications and Community Relations intern from
January through March 2012.
d) Mary Jo Stuckrath to serve as a Title I/LAP Read 180 Coordinator from February through
August 2012.
e) Oleg Varon to serve as a Russian language interpreter on an as-needed basis, effective
February 10 through August 31, 2012.
Personnel Recommendations
Action on personnel recommendations as submitted.

REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports
Camille Hackler attended the Martin Luther King Jr. Conference at Whatcom Community
College as well as the event held at City Hall. She attended the Lowell Elementary School PTA
meeting and the Washington Association of School Administrators (WASA)/Washington State
School Directors Association (WSSDA) Legislative Conference in Olympia with Dr. Baker, Dr.
Gass and Ms. Bashaw. Ms. Hackler attended the Sunnyland Literary Night and commented it
was very well attended with over 175 people in attendance. She also attended the Alderwood
Elementary School English Language Learners’ (ELL) Family Night and was impressed that the
library was open to families prior to the meeting. At the Shuksan Middle School Family Night,
Ms. Hackler said gang prevention and cyber security were discussed.
Along with other directors, Steve Smith attended the Board Linkage on Jan. 26, with service
groups and youth organizations. At the linkage, the draft of the Bellingham Promise was shared.

School Board Minutes
February 9, 2012
Page 4 of 5
Ken Gass recommended others read The Essentials of World Language, Grades K–12: Effective
Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment. Dr. Gass felt the Board of Directors retreat with the
administrative team was productive. Following the linkage with service organizations, he
received a letter from the Kiwanis Club to encourage establishing Key Clubs at all high schools.
The Board visit to Whatcom Middle School was a good opportunity to learn more about how the
school is working to improve efficiencies. Dr. Gass has also been participating in the levy
election effort.
Scott Stockburger participated in the linkage with nonprofit organizations. He especially enjoyed
the visit to Whatcom Middle School and feels they have created a special school, doing special
work. It made him be more aware of how much difference the facility makes in the education of
children by hearing the positive impact on students and teachers as reflected in the reduced
number of suspension and discipline issues. He was also impressed with their commitment to
standards-based curriculum. Dr. Stockburger plans to email a handout from Federal Way School
District to the other board members on standard-based curriculum.
Kelly Bashaw attended the WASA/WSSDA Legislative Conference and felt it is important for
legislators to see how the state’s school districts are working together to improve education for
all students. She commented it was great to see how the teachers at Whatcom Middle School
have been re-energized and the collaboration that is taking place. Ms. Bashaw also attended the
Board linkage and has been working on the levy election.
Legislative Report
Ken Gass reported that at the Legislative Conference, they heard from the lead attorney on the
McCleary case. There are several educational-related bills that are still alive. Ten states have
passed teacher evaluation bills that would set standards for teacher and student improvements.
Washington legislators are considering two different bills on teacher evaluations. The directors
asked Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan to report at the Feb. 23 School Board meeting on
Senate Bill 6442 which would establish a consolidated system for purchasing insurance benefits
for school employees and their dependents.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report
Superintendent Greg Baker reported that the elementary schools have been engaged in how to
adopt a standard-based curriculum. He has also been meeting with staff at school staff meetings
to share the draft of the Bellingham Promise and to ask for their feedback. The conversations
around the Promise have been rich and he will share this information with the Board at a later
meeting. Dr. Baker reported he has also been visiting various service clubs to update members
on the levy. Many who participated in the Jan. 26 linkage reported great energy and synergy
between service organizations and the school community. The Shuksan Middle School
Community Family Night was a success with many in attendance, including a cross section of
community agencies that provide support to schools.
Dr. Baker asked Executive Director Nora Klewiada to share information on the district’s
affirmative action plan. Ms. Klewiada will give the Board a full report at a later date but wanted

School Board Minutes
February 9, 2012
Page 5 of 5
to share news on one goal area—the number of minority hires. At the end of the fourth year of
the district’s five-year plan, the district has increased the number of minority hires in six areas.
Audience
No audience presented.

POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Monitoring Report for EL-8, Budget Execution
Assistant Superintendent Ron Cowan gave a monitoring report on EL-8, Budget Execution, to
the Board. Mr. Cowan indicated the district “in compliance” and identified supporting criteria.
The Board will respond to this monitoring report at the Feb. 23, 2012 Board meeting. Dr. Gass
thanked Mr. Cowan for the financial metric and the report on the fund balance.

BOARD RESPONSE TO MONITORING
Monitoring Report for EL-3, Treatment of Parents, Students and the Public
Monitoring Report for EL-11, Communication and Counsel to the Board
Monitoring Report for EL-12, Communication with the Public
Ken Gass moved and Scott Stockburger seconded acceptance of all three monitoring reports as in
compliance. The motion carried unanimously.
CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting
Camille Hackler assessed the meeting. Her overall assessment was good

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:45 p.m.

