Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
04/27/2023
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by CJ Costanti at 7:00pm. Board of Directors in attendance were David
Vis, Cindy Petersen, Ken Owsley and CJ Costanti. Director Tonya Hickman was present via phone.
Also in attendance were Superintendent David VanderYacht and Student Directors Cooper
Graddon and Aislinn Nilsen.
2. Meeting Minutes
Cindy Petersen motioned to approve the April 13, 2023, board meeting minutes. Seconded by
David Vis.
Advisory vote 2-0; Board vote 5-0.
3. Consent Agenda
22/23 General Fund- $607,474.20 warrants 166006-166078 dated April 14, 2023
22/23 Capital Projects Fund- $2,218.03 warrants 166079-166079 dated April 14, 2023
22/23 ASB Fund- $11,163.52 warrants 166080-166097 dated April 14, 2023
22/23 ACH General Fund- $3,509.59 warrants 222300357-222300370 dated April 14, 2023
22/23 ACH- ASB Fund- $156.23 warrants 222300371-222300372 dated April 14, 2023
Personnel Recommendations dated April 27, 2023
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom County Discovery Center
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom Detention Center
Resolution #03-23- Asset Preservation Program (APP)
Resolution #04-23- WIAA Membership
David Vis motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by Cindy Petersen.
Advisory Vote 2-0; Board vote 5-0.

4. Reports
a. Superintendent23/24 Budget Development Update- Superintendent VanderYacht provided an overview
of current funding and the highlights of the legislative session that was completed on
April 23rd. Highlights included special education funding, regionalization adjustment, and
local effort assistance adjustment.
Revenue shortfall for 23/24 to maintain a 4% end fund balance (reserve) is estimated at
$3.2 million.
He continued to speak about the contributing circumstances, the process the district
established and implemented to identify reductions, and a summary of reductions being
considered for the 23/24 operating budget. He shared what has been communicated to
district families and staff regarding 23/24 budget development as well as next steps for
communication and adoption of the 23/24 budget.
b. Teaching and LearningLynden High School Principal, Ian Freeman, and Assistant Principals, Rex Fraser and
David Kish, presented an update on the high school instructional programs with a focus
on Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). Goals this year include collaborative
professional development and a focus on 9th grade success resulting in a better high
school experience and graduation rates. The presentation concluded with an explanation
of their “instruction for all” model, the community of diverse learners LHS has, and how
to make a universal design for learning so that we design learning based on standards
AND students.
Kent Victor, Director of Career & Technical Education Coordinator, also presented an
update on the CTE program at LHS. He shared the 16 criteria for ensuring robust CTE
programming and also provided and discussed the CTE 4-year plan.
c. Finance and OperationsDirector of Finance, Ben Thomas, shared the March 2023 financial update which
included an executive summary, enrollment analysis, budget status, revenue analysis,
and expenditures by program.
5. Information from the Audience
6. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 4060- Distribution of Information
David Vis motioned to approve updated policy 4060. Seconded by Cindy Petersen.
Advisory Vote: 2-0, Board Vote 5-0
Policy 5001- Hiring of Retired School Employees
Cindy Petersen motioned to approve updated policy 4060. Seconded by David Vis.

Advisory Vote: 2-0, Board Vote 5-0
Policy 6111-Tuition
Ken Owsley motioned to approve updated policy 4060. Seconded by Tonya Hickman.
Advisory Vote: 2-0, Board Vote 5-0
7. Action Items
Career & Technical Education 4-Year Plan
Cindy Petersen motioned to approve the CTE 4-Year Plan following Kent Victor’s presentation
earlier in the meeting. Seconded by Ken Owsley.
Advisory Vote 2-0, Board Vote 5-0.
Resolution #05-23- 180 Day Waiver
Ken Owsley motioned to approve Resolution #05-23. Seconded by David Vis.
Advisory Vote 2-0; Board Vote 5-0
8. Information from Board Members
None at this meeting.
9. Adjourn Meeting
CJ Costanti motioned to adjourn the meeting at 9:11pm.

_______________________________
CJ Costanti, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

