Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
2/9/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Leslie St. Lawrence, teacher at Bernice Vossbeck Elementary, was awarded a $300 mini grant from the Whatcom County School
Retirees' Association- Unit 32. The grant application requested that funds be used for the TK classrooms at Vossbeck and will
be used to purchase needed supplies and materials. Bernice Vossbeck kicked off their I Love to Read month for January 30March 24th. Their goal is to ready 1,500 books as a school!
The staff at Lynden Middle School had an engaging and thought-provoking professional development day on Friday, January
27th. Their theme was "Every Student. Every Day" with a focus on student learning. Staff engaged with Social Emotional
Learning Standards through Character Strong, and learned how the Freckle program meets academic needs of students at
different levels of learning. They also focused on how the WIDA framework and AVID strategies support the learning of all
students.
Lynden High School just wrapped up their first ever "Freshman Blitz"! This was an after-school support program for 9th
graders on Tuesdays and Thursdays during the month of January. It was designed to help them finish their first semester of
high school successfully! Megan Dickson, Brian Miller, Karen Petersen, Isella Skrumbellos and Erin Shaffer did an outstanding
job coordinating the support for over 40 students!
Congratulations to Mrs. Vis' 3rd grade class at Isom Elementary for becoming published authors! They hosted guests for their
Thankful & Blessed book publishing party. This was such an exciting way to celebrate the hard work of making words come to
life! When asked how they had to COOPERATE to accomplish their goal, students shared how classmates worked in groups to
edit their writing, brainstormed title ideas, conducted a class vote to decide who would write the dedication page, and shared
supplies to create illustrations.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 01.26.23

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP Payroll- January 31, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 02.09.2023

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Board Workshop
Facilities Planning

8. Action Items

(Action)

Interlocal Agreements- Teacher of the Visually Impaired and Teacher of Deaf & Hard of Hearing

9. Policy
a. First Readings
Policy 1250- Students on Governing Boards

10. Information from Board Members
11. Adjourn Meeting

