Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
6/22/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Lynden School District is celebrating their 2023 graduates! Lynden High School honored their 206 graduates during a ceremony
held on June 9th and Lynden Academy honored their 23 graduates during a ceremony on June 7th. Congratulations Class of
2023! We are so proud of you!
Lynden School District is celebrating the retirements of the individuals below. A heartfelt thanks to each of them for their
service to our students:
Karen Branham- 2nd grade, Bernice Vossbeck Elementary; Lil Gonzalez- Paraeducator, Bernice Vossbeck
Elementary; Janice Strid- Paraeduator, Isom Elementary; Bonni Mather- Transportation Department; Ed HubbardTeacher, Lynden Academy; Tami Waldemar- Food Services; John Vanleperen- Grounds Department
Bernice Vossbeck brought back their end-of-year Field Day after a 14 year hiatus. A great time was had by all!
Lynden Middle School celebrated the end of the year with 6th graders attending a field trip to Skateway, and 7th and 8th
graders enjoyed a day at the Birch Bay Waterslides. They also held a school-wide assembly that was Minute-to-Win-It themed
and honored outgoing 8th graders.
Lynden Academy ended the year with a great Field Day that was put together by their amazing Parent Volunteer Group! They
also had around 30 students participate in their annual Share Fair where students bring in and present an interest-based
project that they have worked on from home. Projects included Soccer, Art from Bluey Cartoon, How Fast Can It Go, Rubik's
Cube, Unicorn, Hamster, and many other things!
Lynden School District's Transportation Department received recognition from the Washington Office of the Superintendent
(OSPI) for two years of exceptional results following the annual inspection of school buses.

3. Meeting Minutes
Meeting Minutes- June 8, 2023
Meeting Minutes- June 9, 2023

(Action)

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- June 15, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- June 22, 2023

5. Reports
a. Superintendent
Student Director Recommendation
Financial Report- May 2023
Superintendent's Report
Financial Report- May 2023

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
a. Second Readings
3245- Students and Telecommunication Devices

8. Action Items
Comprehensive School Counseling Plan
Action Items- June 22, 2023

9. Information from Board Members
10. Board Workshop
Superintendent Evaluation Process & Timeline
Capital Facilities Planning Update
School Board Director Handbook
Board Workshop

11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

