Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
06/22/2023
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by CJ Costanti at 7:00pm. Board of Directors in attendance were David
Vis, Ken Owsley and CJ Costanti. Directors Cindy Petersen and Tonya Hickman were absent and
excused. Superintendent David VanderYacht was also in attendance.
2. Meeting Minutes
David Vis motioned to approve the June 8, 2023, and June 9, 2023 board meeting minutes.
Seconded by Ken Owsley Motion carried by voice vote.
Board vote 3-0.
3. Consent Agenda
22/23 General Fund- $342,626.79 warrants 166455-166548 dated June 15, 2023.
22/23 Capital Projects Fund- $7,120.96 warrants 166549-166549 dated June 15, 2023.
22/23 ASB Fund- $35,346.13 warrants 166550-166579 dated June 15, 2023.
22/23 ACH- General Fund- $11,273.04 warrants 222300468-222300503 dated June 15, 2023.
22/23 ACH- ASB Fund- $1,777.30 warrants 222300504-222300515 dated June 15, 2023.
Personnel Recommendations dated June 22, 2023.
Ken Owsley motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Board vote 3-0.

4. Reports
a. SuperintendentSuperintendent VanderYacht reported that he has completed student director interviews.
He is recommending that LHS student, Kyle Tucker, be sworn into office as Student Board
Director at the September 14th board meeting.
Superintendent VanderYacht presented the Financial Report for May 2023 due to
Director of Finance, Ben Thomas, being absent and excused. The report included an
executive summary, enrollment information, budget status, revenue by source and
expenditures by program. Discussion was held regarding Special Education funding for
next year.
b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations
5. Information from the Audience
6. Policy
a. First Readings
b. Second Readings
Policy 3245- Students and Telecommunication Devices
Ken Owsley motioned to adopt Policy 3245. Seconded by David Vis. Motion carried by
voice vote.
Board Vote 3-0
7. Action Items
Comprehensive School Counseling Plan
Following presentations by the counseling teams from each building during the May 11th and
May 25th board meetings, Superintendent VanderYacht presented the board with the Lynden
School District’s Comprehensive School Counseling Plan. The document presented was in the
OSPI recommended template and provided a summary of the CSCP, which requires board
approval each year. The district counseling team has also created a more robust internal
working document which helps to operationalize the CSCP and create K-12 alignment, which was
presented to the board at the May 11th meeting.
David Vis motioned to approve the Comprehensive School Counseling Plan. Seconded by Ken
Owsley. Following discussion, a decision was made to move this item to the next meeting agenda
so that all board members will be present and able to vote on this.
8. Information from Board Members

9. Board Workshop
Superintendent Evaluation Process and TimelineEvaluation committee members Ken Owsley and CJ Costanti presented the board with the
Superintendent Evaluation framework that they will be using to evaluate Superintendent
VanderYacht. They will complete the evaluation and meet with Superintendent VanderYacht
before the next meeting and be prepared to present it to the rest of the board on July 13th.
The board can then address contract renewal.
Superintendent VanderYacht expressed his interest in conducting and discussing the evaluation
in a public forum instead of an executive session as has been done previously.
Capital Facilities Planning UpdateSuperintendent VanderYacht provided the board with an update on the work being done by the
Long-Range Capital Facilities group. Final details on a draft document are being completed and
will be ready for presentation to the board in the coming weeks.
He also provided an update on the work being done by the Bond Planning Task Force. They have
completed all of their collaborative meetings.
Superintendent VanderYacht presented the board with an overview of a recommended timeline
for receiving both reports.
Further discussion focused on moving the timeline up to allow more time for community
engagement, and for Board Directors to process the recommendation. Superintendent
VanderYacht was directed to identify possible dates in July for the full board to be able to receive
and discuss the recommendation.
School Board Director HandbookThe Board was asked to come prepared with suggestions and feedback regarding potential
changes to be made to the Board Director Handbook for the 23/24 school year. A decision was
made to table this item until the next meeting so that all board members are present.
Director Vis suggested that we streamline/shorten the core values.
10. Adjourn Meeting
CJ Costanti motioned to adjourn the meeting at 8:22 pm.

_______________________________
CJ Costanti, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

