Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
7/13/2023 07:00 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Good News
Lynden High School students Amanda Schuyleman and Eli Kok advanced to the final round of the High School EMT competition
at the Health Occupation Student Association International Leadership Conference in Dallas last month. This final round
featured the top 26 teams in the nation!
Former Student Director, Aislinn Nilsen, was chosen to speak at the "All Hands Whatcom Opioid Summit" on June 28th. Aislinn
shared how our Teen Court program is creating a continuum of care and response needed to support students and address
the opioid crisis in Whatcom County.
Five Lynden High School students competed at the Future Business Leaders of America National Leadership Conference in
Atlanta. Congratulations to Jaspreet Khatkar & Brady Wakatsuki who placed 4th nationally in the Community Service Project
category, and to Cooper Graddon & Mason Namminga who placed 14th nationally in the Local Annual Chapter Business
Report category. Seraphina Wiesen competed in the Spreadsheet Applications category.

3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- June 22, 2023

4. Consent Agenda
AP//Payroll- June 30, 2023
Personnel Recommendations- 7.13.2023
Donations- July 13, 2023
Interlocal Agreement- NWESD/NWRDC/WSIPC

5. Reports

(Action)

a. Superintendent
23/24 Educational Program Update
Annual Policy Reporting
Superintendent's Report

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

6. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided at the beginning of the meeting. Individuals may address the
Board on agenda items as well as non-agenda items. Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak.
Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed
for a single subject except with the unanimous consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s
statement when it is too lengthy, personally directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such
matters. Complaints concerning District employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints
must be signed and presented to the Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns
about instructional practices or materials should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

7. Policy
Retiring of Policy 3144 and 4314
Policy 6700- Nutrition, Health, & Physical Education

8. Action Items
Comprehensive School Counseling Plan
Interlocal Agreement- Battle Ground School District
Superintendent Evaluation and Contract
Action Items- 07.13.2023

9. Information from Board Members
10. Board Workshop
Board Handbook
Board Workshop

11. Adjourn Meeting to go into Work Session
12. Work Session
Capital Facilities
Work Session- 07.13.2023

(Action)

