MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA ZOOM
December 13, 2023

REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting was called to order by Board President Sara Bernardy at 6:00 p.m.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Board President Sara Bernardy welcomed everyone that was in attendance.
Board members present at the meeting were Sara Bernardy, Craig Mitchell, Marty Gray, Jarrod Karuza,
and Steve Corwin.
Student Board Representatives Morgan Adams and Kennedy Brzozowski were present at the meeting.
Sara Bernardy requested a motion to modify the agenda to move agenda item 6A Outgoing Board
Director Recognition up on the agenda to before item 5A Annual Reorganization of the School Board. A
motion to adopt a modified agenda was made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Craig Mitchell. The
motion passed 5-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Accounts Payable
C. Personnel Report
D. Payroll
E. Whatcom County Behavior Health Contract – Update
F. NWESD 2023-24 MHP Contract - Update
G. Outgoing Board President Message
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Steve Corwin and seconded by Marty Gray. The
motion passed 5-0.
PRO TERM PRESIDENT DESIGNATION
Outgoing Board President Sara Bernardy designated Marty Gray as President Pro Term for the purpose of
facilitating business until the election of a new board president is completed later in the meeting. Marty
accepted the nomination.
DIRECTOR’S OATH OF OFFICE
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett issued the Director's Oath of Office to Board Director's Marty Gray
(Director District 4), Jana Haugen (Director District 1), and Michelle Simmons (Director District 5) who
were elected in the November 2, 2023, General Election.
Outgoing School Board Director Recognition
Dr. Everett recognized outgoing School Board Directors Sara Bernardy and Craig Mitchell.

ANNUAL REORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL BOARD

Call for Nominations for Board President to serve during 2024

The board heard nominations for board president. Jarrod Karuza nominated Steve Corwin for board
president. Steve Corwin accepted the nomination and was elected as board president by a roll call vote,
5-0.
Call for Nominations for Vice President to serve during 2024

After assuming office, Steve Corwin called for nominations for vice president. Michelle Simmons
nominated Jarrod Karuza for vice president. Jarrod Karuza accepted the nomination and was elected as
vice president by a roll call vote, 5-0.
PRESENTATIONS
MHS Student Recognition
MHS Principal Derek Forbes recognized MHS Cross County students for their commitment, character,
care, and community building.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.
REPORTS
Transportation Report
Transportation director, Michele Apeles presented a transportation update report to the Board. Michele
highlighted new staff, reported on shop and fleet updates, and shared excitement about the student bus
monitor program the department is utilizing.
Facilities Task Force Recommendation
Members of the Facilities Task Force Committee presented to the Board their facilities recommendations.
The presentation included details of the review process the task force completed to determine the
proposed facilities recommendation. The facilities task force recommendation will be brought back to the
board for action in the spring.
OLD BUSINESS
Second Review and Approval: Youth Care Services Contract
The Youth Care Service Contract was presented for a second review and approval. Student
Representatives favor approval. A motion to approve the Youth Care Services Contract as presented was
made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Michelle Simmons. The motion passed 5-0.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Dr. Everett began his report by sharing details of the work he is seeing in our schools. Dr. Everett shared
details about the advocacy meetings he recently attended with BTC, Whatcom Business Alliance, Smalls
Schools, Senator Shewmake & Rep. Timmons, Peace Health, and the Childcare Coalition. Upcoming
training opportunities were also shared during Dr. Everett’s presentation.
INFORMATION FROM STUDENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES
Morgan and Kennedy spoke about the superintendent advisory council meetings. The most recent
meeting focused on belonging. Kennedy and Morgan have a community and district resources slideshow
presentation that they will be showing during the winter wishes assembly on Friday.

INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
There was no information shared by board directors.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:43 pm. by Board President Steve
Corwin.

__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

