MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA ZOOM
May 8, 2024

REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting was called to order by Board President Steve Cowin at 6:00 p.m. Steve welcomed
everyone that was in attendance.
Board directors present at the meeting were Steve Corwin, Jarrod Karuza, Marty Gray, and Jana Haugen.
Board director Michelle Simmons was absent from the meeting.
Student Board Representatives Kennedy Brzozowski and Morgan Adams were also present at the
meeting.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Marty Gray. The motion
passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Personnel Report
C. Accounts Payable
D. Payroll
E. 2024-25 Whatcom County Behavior Health Interlocal Agreement
F. 2024-25 Whatcom County Detention Center Agreement
G. NWESD Web Services Support Agreement
H. 2024-25 Whatcom Discovery Cooperative Program Interlocal Agreement
I. Approval of WIAA Membership Renewal
J. Student Travel
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Marty Gray. The
motion passed 4-0.
RECOGNITION
Masonic Lodge Educator of the Year
Dr. Everett and Masonic Lodge member Mr. Dick Decima presented MHS teacher Steve Lawrence with
the Lynden/Ferndale Masonic Lodge No. 56: Meridian School District Educator of the Year Award. Mr.
Decima thanked the Board for allowing the Masonic Lodge to be present.
Student Board Member Recognition
Dr. Everett recognized student board members, Kennedy Brzozowski and Morgan Adams for their
service as student Board representatives during the 2023-24 school year.
IRE Student Recognition
IRE Principal Tyler Dockins introduced Assistant Principal Nate Beede who manages the fifth-grade selfmanager program. Mr. Beede introduced the self-manager students that were in attendance. Nate gave
an overview of the self-manager program and recognized the work of the self- manager program.

PRESENTATIONS
PLC Presentation
The IRE fifth grade team presented an informational writing PLC report to the Board. Fifth grade
students assisted with the presentation by sharing details about what they learned, the different tools
they used to grow their knowledge through the lessons, and the magazines they produced.
Guiding Coalition Summary of Work
Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, shared a Guiding Coalition update and recognition
report with the Board. The report shared an overview of the work the guiding coalition team does, and
highlighted examples of the work that each school team engaged in this school year.
REPORTS
IRE School Report
IRE Principal Tyler Dockins presented a IRE school report to the Board. Tyler shared CEE survey feedback
from students, staff and families, and the areas IRE will continue to work on in the 2024-25 school year to
create a better sense of belonging. Tyler shared exciting reading data and growth. Jill Hammack shared
details about the writing progression alignment across all grade levels. Tyler also shared excitement about
the newly adopted Eureka Math 2 curriculum and the grade level alignment plan for all subjects across all
grade levels for the 2024-25 school year.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.
OLD BUSINESS
Second Review and Adopt: Policy and Procedure 4001 - Public Information Program
Policy and Procedure 4001 - Public Information Program was presented to the Board for a second review
and adoption. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 4001 - Public Information Program as presented
was made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Marty Gray. The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Adopt: Policy and Procedure 4040 – Public Access to District Records
Policy and Procedure 4040 – Public Access to District Records was presented to the Board for a second
review and adoption. Students favor approval. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 4040 – Public
Access to District Records as presented was made by Marty Gray and seconded by Jarrod Karuza. The
motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Adopt: Policy and Procedure 4060 – Distribution of Information
Policy and Procedure 4060 – Distribution of Information was presented to the Board for a second review
and adoption. Students favor approval. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 4060 – Distribution of
Information as presented was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Marty Gray. The motion passed 40.
Second Review and Approval: Sendan Center Contract
Sendan Center Contract was presented to the Board for a second review and approval. Students favor
approval. A motion to approve the Sendan Center Contract as presented was made by Jarrod Karuza and
seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 4-0.
NEW BUSINESS
First Review: GCU Universal Field Placement Agreement
Dr. Everett presented the GCU Field Placement Agreement to the Board for a first review. This will be
brought back to the Board for second review and approval at the May 22, 2024, regular Board meeting.

First Review: Board Resolution 04-24 - Authorizing the Commitment of Funds
Dr. Everett presented Resolution 04-24: A Resolution authorizing the commitment of funds in the
General Fund for curriculum materials, to the Board for a first review. This will be brought back to the
Board for second review and approval at the May 22, 2024, regular Board meeting.
First Review: Lead Water Action Plan
Jay Yeager presented a Lead Water Action Plan to the Board for a first review. This will be brought back
to the Board for a second review and approval at the May 22, 2024, regular Board meeting.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Dr. Everett began his report by recognizing the Thrive award recipients and sharing details about a $2.1
million Provision Legislative Award that we have received. Dr. Everett continued his report by sharing
information about leadership changes for the 2024-25 school year, details about recent skills center
visits, the Limitless Convening meeting, and the WA-CCER Spring Conference.
INFORMATION FROM STUDENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES
There was no information shared.
INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
Jana shared information from the WSSDA Regional meeting she attended in Friday Harbor on April 27.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:42 pm by Board President Steve
Corwin.
__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

