MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
EXECUTIVE SESSION & REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA ZOOM
January 10, 2024

REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting was called to order by Board President Steve Cowin at 5:10 p.m.
Board members present at the meeting were Steve Corwin, Marty Gray, Jana Haugen, and Michelle
Simmons.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The board moved immediately into Executive Session for the purpose of reviewing the performance of a
public employee. No action was taken during the executive session.
RECONVENE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
Board President Steve Corwin welcomed everyone to the regular board meeting at 6:00 pm.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
Student Board Representative Kennedy Brzozowski and Morgan Adams were present at the meeting.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Marty Gray and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion
passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Personnel Report
C. Accounts Payable
D. Payroll
E. Approval of WGU Affiliation Agreement (AAMC Model)
F. Addition of Instructional Materials Committee Members
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Michelle Simmons.
The motion passed 4-0.
Board Director Jarrod Karuza joined the meeting via zoom at approximately 6:10 p.m.
RECOGNITION
School Board Appreciation
Dr. James Everett recognized our schools Board Directors for and shared appreciation for the work and
guidance they provide and Governors Proclamation.
Meridian Middle School Staff Recognition
Meridian Middle School Principal Todd Torgeson recognized the MMS Science team for their work on
building systems toward mastering standards.

REPORTS
School Data Session Introduction
Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, presented an overview introduction of the
Collaborative Team School Data Presentations to the Board. Adrienne’s presentation highlighted the
learning focus areas and the data that teams have been asked to focus on this school year.
PLC Presentations
MMS Social Studies team gave a PLC presentation to the Board. The presentation highlighted the standard
area of focus, the method of growth measurement for each grade level, and the resources the team is
using to assist and improve student progress.
IRE fourth grade team presented informational writing PLC information. The team shared the preassessments rubric used, the rubric used to measure progress, strategies the team uses to increase
knowledge, and the next steps taken once the skill is mastered.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.
NEW BUSINESS
First Review: MSD Board Operating Protocols

Dr. Everett presented the MSD Board Operating Protocols for a first review. This will be brought back for
a second review and approval at the January 24 Board meeting.
First Review: Revised 2023-24 Plan of Work

Dr. Everett presented the Revised 2023-24 Plan of Work for a first review. This will be brought back for
a second review and approval at the January 24 Board meeting.

SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Dr. Everett reported to the Board on recent district activities. Dr. Everett shared information about Winter
Wishes, recent training, leadership changes, budget considerations, in addition to upcoming advocacy and
training opportunities. Dr. Everett also mentioned that we need a board director to serve as our Legislative
Representative and a board director to serve as our WIAA Representative. Steve will be following up with
all directors to identify who would like to serve in these roles.
INFORMATION FROM STUDENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES
Student Representatives Kennedy and Morgan spoke about how great Winter Wishes was. Kennedy and
Morgan both shared how they participated in the Give Before You Get activities prior to winter break.
INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
Marty shared information about upcoming athletic games and encouraged everyone to attend the
upcoming first home basketball game for the unified basketball team.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:33 p.m. by Board President
Steve Corwin.

__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

