MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
SPECIAL SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA YOUTUBE LIVE STREAM
July 10, 2024

SPECIAL MEETING
The special meeting was called to order by Board President Steve Corwin at 5:00 p.m. Steve welcomed
everyone that was in attendance.
Directors Steve Corwin, Jarrod Karuza, and Jana Haugen were present at the meeting.
Board Directors Marty Gray and Michelle Simmons and Student Representatives Morgan Adams and
Kennedy Brzozowski were absent from the meeting.
Assistant Superintendent Kurt Harvill was in attendance as secretary to the Board in the absence of Dr.
James Everett.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Jarrod Karuza. The motion
passed 3-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Accounts Payable
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Jana Haugen. The
motion passed 3-0.
Board Director Michelle Simmons arrived at 5:02 pm.
OLD BUSINESS
Second Review and Approval: 2024-25 MSD Board Meeting Plan of Work Calendar
The 2024-25 MSD Board Meeting Plan of Work Calendar to the Board for a second review and approval.
A motion to adopt the 2024-25 MSD Board Meeting Plan of Work Calendar as presented was made by
Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 4-0.
NEW BUSINESS
First Review: Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities for a first
review. This will be brought back to the Board for a second review and approval at the July 23, 2024,
Board meeting.
MHS LOSS Drain Field Repaid Contract
Director of Facilities and Maintenance, Jay Yeager presented MHS LOSS Drain Field Repair Contract to
the Board for review and approval. A motion to adopt the MHS LOSS Drain Field Repair Contract as
presented was made by Jana Haugen and second by Michelle Simmons. The motion passed 4-0.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 5:15 pm by Board President Steve
Corwin.
__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

Kurt Harvill, Assistant Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

