MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA YOUTUBE LIVE STREAM
September 11, 2024

REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting was called to order by Board Vice President Jarrod Karuza at 6:00 p.m. Jarrod
welcomed everyone that was in attendance.
Jarrod Karuza, Marty Gray, Michelle Simmons, and Jana Haugen were present at the meeting. Steve
Corwin was absent.
Student Representatives Kennedy Brzozowski and Logan Ignacio were present at the meeting.
A moment of silence was observed to honor the twenty-third anniversary of September 11.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Michelle Simmons. The
motion passed 4-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Personnel Report
C. Accounts Payable
D. Payroll
E. 2024-25 Everett Community College, College in the High School Inter-Agency Agreement
F. 2024-25 Youth Care Services Contract
G. 2024-25 Opportunity Council MOU
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Michelle Simmons and seconded by Jana Haugen.
The motion passed 4-0.
PRESENTATIONS
MP3 Staff Recognition
MP3 Principal Michelle Siadel presented a staff recognition report to the Board. Michelle recognized the
SLPC team at MP3 who provides educational support to students and families in 26 counties.
TOSA Ed Tech Presentation
Adrienne Somera, Joe O'Brien, Cynthia Richardson and Rebecca Kratzig shared a presentation about
Teacher on Special Assignment for Educational Technology. The report focused on using technology for
good and how technology is tied to PLC presentations.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.

REPORTS
Annual Staffing Report
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill present a 2024-25 staffing report to the Board. The report includes
information about new staff that has been hired for the 2024-25 school year and and any unfilled
positions.
2024-25 Strategic Plan Metrics Goals
Dr. Everett and Adrienne Somera presented a report of the Strategic Plan Goals for the 2024-25 school
year and the metrics that will be used to measure progress.
OLD BUSINESS
Third Review and Approval: Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities
Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities, was presented to the Board for a third review and
approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Procedure 2151P –
Interscholastic Activities, as presented was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Michelle Simmons.
The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Approval: Policy and Procedure 2402 – English Language Arts Master- Based Credit
Policy and Procedure 2402 – English Language Arts Master- Based Credit was presented to the Board for
a second review and approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Policy and
Procedure 2402 – English Language Arts Master- Based Credit, as presented was made by Michelle
Simmons and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Approval: Policy and Procedure 2403 – Math Mastery-Based Credit
Policy and Procedure 2403 – Math Mastery-Based Credit was presented to the Board for a second
review and approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Policy and Procedure
2403 – Math Mastery-Based Credit, as presented was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Marty
Gray. The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Approval: Policy and Procedure 2404 – Science Mastery-Based Credit
Policy and Procedure 2404 – Science Mastery-Based Credit was presented to the Board for a second
review and approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Policy and Procedure
2403 – Math Mastery-Based Credit, as presented was made by Michelle Simmons and seconded by Jana
Haugen. The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Approval: Policy and Procedure 2405 – Social Studies-Mastery Based Credit
Policy and Procedure 2405 – Social Studies-Mastery Based Credit was presented to the Board for a
second review and approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Policy and
Procedure 2405 – Social Studies-Mastery Based Credit, as presented was made by Marty Gray and
seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 4-0.
Second Review and Approval: Policy 2413 – Equivalency Credit Opportunities
Policy 2413 – Equivalency Credit Opportunities was presented to the Board for a second review and
approval. Student representatives favor approval. A motion to approve Policy and Procedure 2405 –
Social Studies-Mastery Based Credit, as presented was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Michelle
Simmons. The motion passed 4-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Donation Listing
Dr. Everett presented two donation letters to the Board for first review. This will be brought back to the
Board for second review and approval on September 25, 2024.

Sunbelt Tele OT Agreement
Dr. Everett presented a Sunbelt Tele OT Agreement to the Board for first review. This will be brought
back to the Board for second review and approval on September 25, 2024.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Dr. Everett reported to the board on beginning of the school year preparation, training, kick off and
community engagement activities. He also shared information NCTA Open Doors, the November bond
election and upcoming activities.
INFORMATION FROM STUDENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES
Friday night will be a home football game tailgate and extreme spirit in the courtyard. Students shared
they are seeking applications for student advisory and advisors for each building.

INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
No information was shared.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:51 pm by Board Vice President
Jarrod Karuza.

__________________________________

_________________________________

Jarod Karuza
Board Vice President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

