MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA YOUTUBE LIVE STREAM
September 25, 2024

REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting was called to order by Board President Steve Corwin at 6:00 p.m. Steve welcomed
everyone that was in attendance.
Steve Corwin, Marty Gray, and Jana Haugen were present at the meeting. Jarrod Karuza and Michelle
Simmons were absent from the meeting.
Student Representative Kennedy Brzozowski was present at the meeting. Logan Ignacio was absent from
the meeting.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Marty Gray and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion
passed 3-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Personnel Report
C. Accounts Payable
D. 2024-25 Fuel Bid Extension
E. Revised 2024-25 Youth Care Services Contract
F. Transportation Agreement
G. Basic Education Compliance Report
H. Donation Listing
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Marty Gray. The
motion passed 3-0.
REPORTS
2024-25 Staff Professional Development Plan
Due to illness the 2024-25 Staff Professional Development Plan presentation was postponed to the
October 9, 2024 School Board Meeting.
2024 Summer Maintenance Update
Jay Yeager, Director of Maintenance and Facilities presented a report to the Board on the maintenance
projects that were completed in our facilities over the 2024 summer months.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.
OLD BUSINESS
Second Review and Approval: Donations
Capital project donations were presented to the Board for second review and approval. Student
representative favors approval. A motion to approve donations as presented was made by Marty Gray
and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 3-0.

Second Review and Approval: Sunbelt Tele OT Agreement
The Sunbelt Tele OT Agreement was presented to the Board for second review and approval. Student
representative favors approval. A motion to approve the Sunbelt Tele OT Agreement, as presented was
made by Jana Haugen and seconded by Marty Gray. The motion passed 3-0.
NEW BUSINESS
First Review: Policy 5409 – Unpaid Holidays for Reason of Faith or Conscience and Resolution 11-24
Assistant Superintendent Kurt Harvill presented Policy 5409 – Unpaid Holidays for Reason of Faith or
Conscience and Resolution 11-24 for first review. This will be brought back to the Board for second
review and approval on October 9, 2024.
First Review: Policy 5400 – Personnel Leave
Assistant Superintendent Kurt Harvill presented Policy 5400 – Personnel Leave for first review. This will
be brought back to the Board for second review and approval on October 9, 2024.
First Review: Policy 3432 - Emergencies
Assistant Superintendent Kurt Harvill presented Policy 3432 – Emergencies for first review. This will be
brought back to the Board for second review and approval on October 9, 2024.
First Review: Fire Science Interlocal Agreement
Dr. Everett presented NCTA Fire Science Interlocal Agreement for first review. This will be brought back
to the Board for second review and approval on October 9, 2024.
First Review: Open Doors Interlocal Agreement
Dr. Everett presented NCTA Open Doors Interlocal Agreement for first review. This will be brought back
to the Board for second review and approval on October 9, 2024.
First Review: HUD Interlocal Agreement
Dr. Everett presented NCTA HUD Interlocal Agreement for first review. This will be brought back to the
Board for second review and approval on October 9, 2024.
FINANCE REPORT
Finance Report
Director of Finance, Daniel Yorton gave a financial update to the Board. Daniel reported to the Board on
September enrollment compared to budget, budget status and budget projections.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Dr. Everett reported to the board on meetings, events, and presentations he has been engaged in. Dr.
Everett spoke about the community bond presentation at MMS and the upcoming election. Dates of
importance were also shared by Dr. Everett.
INFORMATION FROM STUDENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES
No information was shared.
INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
Marty Gray shared that he is unable to attend the October 9 board meeting.

BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 7:08 pm by Board President Steve
Corwin.
__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

