MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
SPECIAL SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MEETING HELD IN PERSON & VIA YOUTUBE LIVE STREAM
August 7, 2024

SPECIAL MEETING
The special meeting was called to order by Board President Steve Corwin at 6:01 p.m. Steve welcomed
everyone that was in attendance.
School Board Directors Steve Corwin, Marty Gray, and Jana Haugen were present at the meeting.
Incoming student representative Logan Ignacio was also present at the meeting.
Board Directors Jarrod Karuza and Michelle Simmons and student representatives Morgan Adams and
Kennedy Brzozowski were absent from the meeting.
The pledge of allegiance was recited.
A motion to adopt the agenda was made by Jana Haugen second Marty Gray. The motion passed 3-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Accounts Payable
C. Payroll
D. Personnel Report
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Marty Gray and seconded by Jana Haugen. The
motion passed 3-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment.
OLD BUSINESS
Second Review and Approval: Grant Applicant Authorization Resolution 09-24
Grant Applicant Authorization Resolution 09-24 was presented to the Board for a second review and
approval. A motion to approve Grant Applicant Authorization Resolution 09-24, as presented was made
by Marty Gray and seconded by Jana Haugen. The motion passed 3-0.
NEW BUSINESS
First Review: Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities
Bryant Michaelson and Kurt Harvill presented Procedure 2151P – Interscholastic Activities to the Board
for a first review. The board engaged in a discussion about the procedure as presented. This will be
brought back to the Board for a second review and approval at the August 21, 2024, Board meeting.
FINANCE REPORT
Finance Report
Director of Finance, Daniel Yorton presented a verbal year end spending update report to the Board.
Daniel recommended moving forward with a Budget Extension hearing and resolution signing during the
August 21, 2024, Board meeting.

INFORMATION FROM BOARD DIRECTORS
Marty shared that football season is about a month away and the first home game will be against Omak.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board meeting was adjourned at 6:32 pm by Board President Steve
Corwin.
__________________________________

_________________________________

Steve Corwin
Board President

James Everett, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

