Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
05/16/2024
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by Tonya Hickman at 6:30pm. Board of Directors in attendance were
Directors Hickman, Owsley, Brar, Verburg, and Martinez. Superintendent David VanderYacht and
Student Board Representatives Cooper Graddon and Kyle Tucker were also in attendance.
2. Approval of Agenda
Director Owsley made a motion to approve and accept the agenda. Seconded by Director
Martinez.
Director Brar motioned to amend the agenda to move the election of a WIAA representative to
the first item under action items. Director Martinez seconded. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
Director Verburg made a motion to approve the amended agenda. Director Owsley seconded.
Motion carried by voice vote. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
3. Meeting Minutes
Director Owsley motioned to approve the May 2, 2024, board meeting minutes. Seconded by
Director Verburg.
Director Brar made a motion to amend the May 2, 2024 meeting minutes under Information
from the Board Members to add “for possible adoption” to the end of the third item that starts
with “Director Brar distributed….”. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.

Director Brar motioned to approve the amended meeting minutes for May 2, 2024. Director
Owsley seconded. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
4. Consent Agenda
Personnel Recommendations dated May 16, 2024.
Director Owsley motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by Director Martinez.
Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
5. Information from the Audience
A community member addressed the board regarding a safety concern at Bernice Vossbeck
Elementary- specifically with regards to the traffic, buses, and pedestrians.
A community member addressed the board regarding the general obligations bond.
6. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Student Board Representatives Kyle Tucker & Cooper Graddon shared that over 200 AP exams
have been given at LHS and expressed their appreciation for the support and opportunities that
staff has given to students through the testing process. They shared that LHS is scoring higher on
AP exams than the global average. They also shared that following the state FFA competition
last week, 3 students qualified for nationals. Additionally, the LHS FBLA chapter was awarded
the gold level champion chapter and gold seal chapter. They also shared that the LHS tennis
team won district in singles and have one person in singles and one doubles team going to state.
The tennis team as a whole won the overall district conference championship.
Director Brar inquired as to why move there was a decision made to move this agenda item to
beginning of the meeting.
Directors Hickman & Verburg spoke of proposals for WSSDA’s positions for General Assembly
regarding local control. They will not be submitting proposed revisions.
Director Brar provided further information on the resolution she presented at last meeting
regarding local control and unfunded mandates. She explained the process for passing and
submitting the resolution to WSSDA for general assembly.
7. Reports
a. Superintendent

b. Teaching & Learning
Ellie Meenk, Principal of Lynden Academy, presented the board with a progress update
related to Lynden Academy’s School Improvement Plan. Their first goal is for staff to
understand and articulate the three key UDL guidelines to foster a deeper understanding
of UDL principles. 21% of staff have reported that they are confident enough to explain
an overview of UDL while 65% indicate they would be able to explain a basic overview of
UDL. Their second goal was to increase the percentage of students in Kindergarten to
eighth grade who are performing above grade level in mathematics by 10%. She shared
that most grade levels have increased that percentage by 8-34%.
Vince Riccobene, Principal of Lynden Middle School, presented the board with a progress
update related to LMS’s School Improvement Plan. Their first goal was for staff at LMS to
participate in UDL professional development and explore the guidelines in their
classrooms. Mr. Riccobene explained that they partnered with ESD 189 for professional
development and also received feedback from staff surveys to guide next steps. Their
second goal was for implementation of the Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports
(PBIS) incentive programs to address Tier 1 behavioral and attendance in the MTSS
framework. They measure progress of this goal through discipline, attendance, and
grade data. He shared that as of May 1st in the 22/23 school year, there were 388
behavioral referrals and 225 unexcused absences. For May 1st of this school year, they
are at 507 behavioral referrals and 186 unexcused absence referrals. Of those 507
behavioral referrals, 91% have 3 or less referrals, which means the redirection of
behavior is working on the 1st or 2nd time.
c. Finance and Operations
8. Policies
a. First Readings
No action taken.
b. Second Readings
Policy 6905- Site Acquisition
Director Owsley motioned to approve updated Policy 6905- Site Acquisition. Seconded by
Director Martinez. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
9. Board Workshop
Directors Hickman & Owsley, as the board’s Superintendent Evaluation Committee, presented a
draft of the 2024 superintendent evaluation. Discussion was held around how the evaluation was

scored by the collective group of directors. Superintendent VanderYacht expressed his thanks to
the directors for their feedback and shared that this will help guide their collective work moving
forward.
10. Action Items
Election of WIAA Representative
Director Martinez nominated Director Brar to serve as the board’s Washington Interscholastic
Athletic Association’s (WIAA) Representative. Director Brar accepted the nomination.
Director Martinez made a motion to approve Director Brar as the WIAA representative.
Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote 5-0
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom County Behavioral Health- 24/25
Director Owsley motioned to approve the Interlocal Agreement with Whatcom County for
Behavioral Health Services Support for 2024/2025. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion
carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
Interlocal Agreement- Whatcom Discovery- 24/25
Director Martinez motioned to approve the Interlocal Agreement with Whatcom Discovery for
2024/2025. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
Resolution #07-24: Surplus Personal Property
Director Brar motioned to approve Resolution #07-24- Surplus Personal Property. Seconded by
Director Verburg. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
11. Adjourn Meeting
There being no further business, Director Hickman motioned to adjourn the meeting at 8:53pm.

_______________________________
Tonya Hickman, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

