Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
7/11/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
2. Approval of Agenda
3. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Meeting Minutes- 06.20.2024

4. Consent Agenda

(Action)

AP/Payroll- June 28, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 07.11.24

5. Information from the audience
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
24/25 Running Start Agreement with Bellingham Technical College
24/25 Agreement with Northwest Educational Service District
24/25 Interlocal Agreement with Nooksack Valley School District
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes and
may not transfer their time to another speaker. No more than 30 minutes is allowed for a single subject except with the unanimous
consent of the Board. The Board president may interrupt or terminate an individual’s statement when it is too lengthy, personally
directed, irrelevant, or abusive. The Board as a whole has the final decision on such matters. Complaints concerning District
employees or other individuals may not be addressed orally at the meeting. Such complaints must be signed and presented to the
Board in writing. Executive session may then be granted for a hearing. Questions or concerns about instructional practices or materials
should be directed to the superintendent for appropriate referral.

6. Reports
a. Superintendent
Capital Bond Update:
Project Breakdown
Owner Representative Process
Bond Financing
Capital Bond Update

b. Teaching and Learning
c. Finance and Operations

7. Action Items
24/25 Running Start Agreement- Bellingham Technical College
24/25 Northwest Edcuational Service District Agreement
24/25 Interlocal Agreement- Nooksack Valley SD Community Transitions

8. Board Workshop
Gender Inclusive Schools
Board Meeting Duration

9. Board Committee Reports
Finance Committee

10. Information from Board Directors
Information from Board Directors

11. Adjourn Meeting

(Action)

