Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

Board Meeting
Minutes
06/06/2024
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main Street, Lynden, WA 98264
1. Call to Order, Welcome & Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Meeting called to order by Tonya Hickman at 6:30pm. Board directors in attendance were
Directors Hickman, Owsley, Brar, Martinez and Verburg. Superintendent David VanderYacht and
Student Board Representatives Cooper Graddon and Kyle Tucker were also in attendance.
2. Approval of Agenda
Director Owsley made a motion to approve the amended agenda. Seconded by Director
Martinez.
Director Brar made a motion to amend the agenda to add “WIAA Report” as item 16 on the
agenda. Seconded by Director Martinez. Motion not carried.
Board Vote: 2-3 Directors Martinez, Hickman and Owsley opposed.
Original agenda approved by voice vote.
Board Vote: 5-0
3. Meeting Minutes
Director Owsley motioned to approve the May 16, 2024 board meeting minutes. Seconded by
Director Martinez. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.

4. Educator of the Year
Superintendent VanderYacht and Dick Decima, representative of the Lynden/Ferndale Masonic
Lodge, presented the Educator of the Year Award to Laura Landis. Superintendent VanderYacht
recognized Laura for her innovative and engaging teaching methods, and her investment
through training and support of educators throughout the district. Laura’s name has been added
to the district plaque, and she received $1,500 to use towards classroom items and equipment.
5. Consent Agenda
23/24 General Fund: $290,117.70; warrants 168967-169031 dated May 15, 2024.
23/24 ASB Fund: 15,711.46; warrants 169032-169049 dated May 15, 2024.
23/24 ACH-General Fund: $6,238.45; warrants 232400337-232400361 dated May 15, 2024.
23/24 ACH-ASB Fund: $845.20; warrants 232400362-232400369 dated May 15, 2024.
23/24 General Fund: $236,946.83; warrants 169069-169164 dated May 31, 2024.
23/24 Capital Project Fund: $2,737.29; warrants 169165-169165 dated May 31, 2024.
23/24 ASB Fund: $45,155.79; warrants 169166-169187 dated May 31, 2024.
23/24 ACH-General Fund: $1,500.44; warrants 232400370-232400380 dated May 31, 2024.
23/24 ACH-ASB Fund: $385.43; warrants 232400381-232400386 dated May 31, 2024.
Payroll Direct Deposits in the amount of $2,067,326.17 dated May 31, 2024.
Payroll Taxes Transfers in the amount of $688,883.05 dated May 31, 2024.
Payroll Vendor DRS Transfer in the amount of $525,955.80 dated May 31, 2024.
Payroll Vendor Warrants 169050-169068 in the amount of $714,994.98.
Personnel Recommendations dated June 6, 2024.
Donation- Fisher Elementary PTA
Director Brar motioned to approve the consent agenda. Seconded by Director Verburg. Motion
carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0.
6. Information from the Audience
A community member addressed the board in opposition of biological men competing in
women’s sports.
A community member addressed the board regarding Inspire Development Center being built on
Isom property.
Another community member addressed the board regarding the plans for the Inspire
Development Center being built on the Isom property.
A community member addressed the board with concerns regarding Title IX.

A member of the Citizens for Lynden Schools group shared what their group has been doing to
inform the community about the upcoming bond election.
7. Information from Board Directors and Student Representatives
Student Board Representative Cooper Graddon expressed his thanks to the board for allowing
him the opportunity to serve on the board for the last two years. He shared his thoughts about
the role of the student board representative, and the board thanked him for his service.
Director Owsley shared about his visit to the bus garage and Isom Elementary.
Director Hickman gave an update as a member of the board’s legislative committee.
Director Brar stated that she contacted Mt. Baker SD about their school-based health clinics.
asked how many years their district has had the agreement with Whatcom County for behavioral
health funding.
Director Brar asked some follow up questions regarding the crosswalks at Vossbeck Elementary.
Director Brar asked about the permanent classrooms being proposed at Isom and Vossbeck on
the bond election.
Director Brar asked that Policy 3211 and Policy 1310 be added to a future agenda. She asked
that WIAA also be added to a future agenda.
*Director Martinez exited the meeting due to a pre-scheduled personal commitment.

8. Teaching & Learning Report
Assistant Superintendent of Teaching & Learning, Dr. Julie van Wijk, facilitated a presentation on
the curriculum that has been selected and is being recommended by the Instructional Materials
Committee for adoption by the board as the new science curriculum for LHS. A representative
from Savvas Learning Company was also in attendance and shared information about their
curriculum.
Savvas is being recommended for biology, chemistry, and physics. McGraw Hill is being
recommended for physical science.
**Director Martinez rejoined the meeting.

9. Action Item
Director Martinez motioned to adopt the science curriculum recommended by the Instructional
Materials Committee for Physical Science, Biology, Chemistry, and Physics at Lynden High School.
Seconded by Director Brar. Motioned carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
10. Superintendent Report
24/25 Student Board Representative
Superintendent VanderYacht reported that he has completed interviews of the students who
submitted applications to serve as a 24/25 student board representative. He has selected Lynden
High School student Ashley Acton, and she will be seated at the September 19th meeting.
Career & Technical Education Annual Report
Outgoing CTE Program Director, Kent Victor and incoming CTE Program Director, John Grubbs
presented the board with a summary of the district’s CTE 4-year plan as required by Policy 2170.
11. Action Item
Director Owsley motioned to approve the 4-year CTE plan as presented by Kent Victor and John
Grubbs. Seconded by Director Brar. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
12. Finance & Operations Report
Ben Thomas, Director of Finance & Operations, presented the board with the April 2024 financial
report and an update on the 24/25 budget development. The April financial report included an
executive summary, enrollment, budget status, revenue, expenditures, and projection. The 24/25
budget development update included a budget timeline and corresponding information.
13. Policy
a. Second Readings
Policy 2255- Alternative Learning Experience Courses
Director Martinez motioned to approve updated Policy 2255- Alternative Learning
Experience Courses. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
14. Action Items
Inspire Development Center- Lease Amendment
Director Martinez motioned to approve the second lease amendment with Inspire Development
Center. Seconded by Director Owsley. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0

Resolution #08-24: WSSDA Prioritization of Local Control & No Unfunded Mandates
Director Owsley motioned to approve Resolution #08-24- WSSDA Prioritization of Local Control &
No Unfunded Mandates. Seconded by Director Brar. Motion carried by voice vote.
Advisory Vote: 2-0; Board Vote: 5-0
15. Adjourn Meeting
Director Hickman motioned to adjourn the meeting at 10:07pm.

_______________________________
Tonya Hickman, President

____________________________________
David VanderYacht, Superintendent

