DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 17, 2018
1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 17, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Douglas Benjamin, Jenn Mason, Superintendent Greg
Baker, and Sheri O’Day (recorder). Director Quenby Peterson was absent.
Audience:
• Kaitlin Winters – Spoke as a BASE (Bellingham Association of School Employees)
member working at Squalicum High School and mother of two Bellingham Public
Schools students. She works with Community Transitions students in one of the
highest paid BASE positions. She is struggling with the decision of needing to find a
second job. Her colleague has been a job coach with the district for more than 20
years and was not able to attend this meeting because she is working at her second job
this evening.
• Chris Smith – Is a paraeducator in the Life Skills program at Wade King Elementary
and addressed the board to represent and support BASE. BASE members do more
than what is contained in their job descriptions – they educate without planning time
and promote students’ well-being and emotional health. They have been told they are
part-time workers, so they shouldn’t receive a living wage. They put in the same
hours as teachers. The cost of living is high in Bellingham, and if all his salary is
spent on rent, it does not leave room for other expenses. He appreciates The
Bellingham Promise and the One Schoolhouse approach and hopes the district will
make an equitable distribution of funds. He encouraged the district to open the BASE
contract.
• Peggy Fogarty – She said it’s difficult to come to school each day when the One
Schoolhouse feels divided. BASE members do not feel they are a part of the One
Schoolhouse. They work hard for our community’s children. Half of her taxes go to
the Bellingham Public Schools. She works three jobs as a property manager, campus
monitor and event security to make ends meet.
• Rebecca Sauter – She is a BASE co-president and read a letter on behalf of another
BASE member and paraeducator at Squalicum, Mary Monroe, who could not attend
the board meeting. The letter stated that most people do not realize the impact that
paraeducators have on students’ success, even though they don’t have a teaching
certificate; it’s challenging to have patience, understanding and compassion with all
students. She supports paraeducators in their endeavor to advocate for higher wages.

•
•

•

1.4

Ingrid Gale-Olson – She read a letter on behalf of a co-worker who couldn’t attend
the meeting because she was working at her third job. She cannot afford to pay rent
and is living with her in-laws, and she is working a total of 93 hours this week.
LaVera Langeman – She is a paraeducator in the Bridges program at Lowell. She
sees her job as a paraeducator as a career, but she needs to have a second job.
Paraeducators very often get hurt, go home exhausted and do not feel valued for
much of the time. Paraeducators give their entire heart to students. She hopes that the
contract is opened.
Doug Lafferty – His daughter attends Shuksan Middle School, and he spoke to the
board concerning correspondence related to social justice. He met recently with Jay
Jordan, Executive Director, Teaching and Learning; Amy Carder, Shuksan principal;
and Summer Stoner, Shuksan teacher, regarding political posters that are on
display in classrooms at Shuksan. He is disappointed that the posters have not been
removed. He has spoken with/corresponded with Mr. Jordan on several occasions to
let him know that the posters are in violation of the district’s policies. He was
assured by Mr. Jordan that this is a process and that alternative posters would be
available to principals but that has not yet happened.

Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• Dr. Baker acknowledged the great employees with great hearts who just spoke.
School districts across the state are being faced with this same issue after negotiating
new contracts with teachers’ associations. He recently met with the Washington State
Superintendent of Public Instruction and six other superintendents, and many districts
feel they have been put into a tough financial position. Additional one-time funding
was given to districts from the State, but the funding is not sustainable. Dr. Baker is
asking for time to continue to work towards a solution, but re-opening contracts and
the negotiation process will take time for our other employee groups. The state
superintendent has presented some ideas recently, which include a capital gains tax as
well as changes to funding for special education, counseling, mental health and
nursing. A state budget proposal will likely come out in December, and it likely will
take the legislature until May or June to come to an agreement. It is challenging that
school districts need to complete their budget process prior to the time when the state
budget will be released, and this likely will cause districts to plan on cuts across the
system to balance their budgets. Dr. Baker is continuing to attend staff and
PTA/PTSA meetings to help inform families about the process. The question was
asked when it will be known what cuts will need to be made here. Dr. Baker
responded that at this time it is looking like $5 to $6 million will need to be cut from
the budget. That amount should be refined within the next few weeks. The budget is
an estimate and then we will need to close out the books prior to knowing what the
state decides.
• Dr. Baker asked Executive Director of Capital Projects Ron Cowan to share where
the district is with some of its capital projects:
o Parkview Elementary – Ron updated the board on the potential acquisition
of City of Bellingham property that is adjacent to Parkview. The district’s
legal counsel is working with the City’s legal counsel regarding the necessary
steps for the property because a family donated the piece of land to the City
2

•
•

2.0

for park use. The school should be finished by the fall of 2022, which is
consistent with our original timeline.
o Alderwood Elementary – Ron shared that in 1955 when Whatcom County
conveyed the Alderwood Elementary property to the district there was a
condition placed on the conveyance whereby only 20 percent of the property
could be used for structures, with the remaining 80 percent to be used for
playgrounds. Because of that restriction and additional areas considered as
wetlands, it would be challenging to build a new school while students are
attending school in the current building. Legal counsel has indicated that the
Whatcom County Council can extinguish that condition. Ron and Dr. Baker
will be meeting with representatives from the county to ask them to consider
removing the condition. In the meantime, our architects are looking at how the
plans could be adjusted in the event the condition is not removed. Ron noted
that the restriction was put into place by court order back in the 1950s.
o Sehome High School – Ron indicated that the Sehome High School project is
still moving ahead of schedule. He shared a drone video of the site. Fixtures
and furniture should be delivered in December, with a portion of the building
being ready to open when students return from winter break in January 2019.
The new building will fully open at the beginning of second semester, which
is six months early. When questioned why construction is so far ahead of
schedule, Ron noted that it is due to a collaboration process including
architects, contractors and district staff. Ron also shared a presentation that
highlights progress on the interior and exterior of the building and playing
fields. There was general discussion about the location of the 2019 graduation
ceremony.
Dr. Baker indicated that an appraisal process is underway for property that the district
is considering purchasing for a district office site.
There was discussion about the October 30, 2018 English Language Learners (ELL)
linkage meeting, which will be 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Shuksan Middle School. Director
Jenn Mason indicated that she will not be available to attend that evening.

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Diaz Hackler indicated that her husband works for Construction Supply Co., Inc.,
and to avoid a conflict of interest per RCW 42.23.030, Ms. Diaz Hackler will recuse
herself from voting on Item 2.3 (Approval of Expenditures and Payroll). Ms. Diaz
Hackler made a motion to vote on item 2.3 separately. Ms. Mason seconded the motion.
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Mason, to approve the following consent
agenda items:

2.1
2.2
2.4
2.5

Approval of Minutes of the September 12, 2018 Regular Board Meeting,
September 26, 2018 Special Meeting and the October 2, 2018 School Board Visit
Approval of Investments – September 2018
Approval of Donations
Resolution 24-18 Survey of Space Availability
3

2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22
2.23
2.24
2.25
2.26
2.27

Resolution 27-18 Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Approve Dedication of Public Improvements
Authorize Negotiations Architectural Services for Synthetic Turf Fields and Related
Improvements at Bellingham and Squalicum High Schools
Hire Appraiser for Property Appraisal
K-12 STEM Classroom and Labs Grant – Letter of Support
2018-19 iGrants Form Package-Highly Capable Program
Western Washington University-Community Transitions MOU (#1718-158)
Opportunity Council-Early Learning & Family Services Inter-Agency Agreement
(#1819-043)
Mount Baker Theatre Agreement (#1819-049)
Meridian School District Transportation Agreement (#1819-059)
Aperture Education Agreement (#1819-061)
Puget Sound Energy Incentive Grant (#1819-056)
Approve ESD 112 Inter-Agency Agreement for Study and Survey (#1819-063)
Washington Student Achievement Council (#1819-064)
AVID College Readiness System Services and Products Agreement (#1819-065)
ESD 189 Community Prevention and Wellness Initiative Contract (#1819-066)
Catholic Community Services WISe MOU (#1819-069)
Whatcom County Tech Prep Consortium Partnership Agreement (#1819-071)
Agreement for Services with Dr. Anthony Craig
Approve Updated Policies 2190, 4200
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
Unanimous affirmative vote.
Ms. Mason made a motion, seconded by Mr. Benjamin, to approve the following consent
agenda item:

2.3

Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2018
Affirmative votes: Ms. Bashaw, Mr. Benjamin, Ms. Mason.
Abstention: Ms. Diaz Hackler.

3.0
3.1

3.2

POLICY GOVERNANCE MONITORING
EL-1 Monitoring Report
In keeping with Policy Governance, the report on EL-1, Expectations of Superintendent,
was presented and will be reviewed at the November 7, 2018 regular meeting.
EL-5 Monitoring Report
In keeping with Policy Governance, the report on EL-5, Communication and Counsel to
the Board, was presented and will be reviewed at the November 7, 2018 regular meeting.

4

4.0
4.1

4.2
5.0
5.1

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports: Highlights of comments:
▪ Ms. Diaz Hackler and Mr. Benjamin attended the fall Area 1 regional meeting at
Everett Public Schools and the following was shared:
o Ms. Diaz Hackler noted that the 62 percent of Everett School District’s
students continue to college; their student population is 52 percent white; 92
percent of their ELL students graduate in four years; they have 26 schools
with 140 portables; 38 percent of their students qualify for free/reduced lunch,
and the student population is close to 20,000. Mr. Benjamin stated that he
appreciates that the size of our schools is much smaller and more intimate.
o Meridian, Mount Baker and Ferndale school districts were all in attendance.
o WSSDA is looking for input and feedback regarding how the negotiation
process went for districts. There were many stories from other districts that
were in a much more difficult situation than we were.
o There are district 1 openings on the following committees: Legislative
Committee; Resolutions Committee; Nominating Committee; and
Interscholastic Activities Committee.
▪ Ms. Diaz Hackler attended the open house at Carl Cozier Elementary and met the
new principal, Ari Feeney. There was a potluck which drew a large crowd.
▪ Mr. Benjamin acknowledged Executive Director of Communications and Community
Relations Jackie Brawley and her team for their assistance with the WSSDA Boards
of Distinction application.
▪ Mr. Benjamin shared that he, Ms. Bashaw and Ms. Mason attended the Bellingham
Public Schools Foundation dinner on Sept. 21, and it was an inspiring event.
▪ Mr. Benjamin attended a meeting held at a private home with several other people,
including a Sehome High School senior, and an interesting discussion was held
regarding political action. He noted that many of our seniors are 18 years old and able
to vote.
▪ Ms. Mason attended a rally to support victims of sexual assault and noted that many
of the students who were involved in the student walkout last year were in attendance.
▪ Ms. Bashaw attended an early learning brunch in Anacortes, and the keynote speaker
was from Tacoma Pierce County Health Department.
GP-7.2 – 2018-19 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review.
NEW BUSINESS
School Board Committee Reports:
▪ At the Sept. 26, 2018 school board retreat, Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Mason were tasked
with looking at how the school board communicates with the public and how they
arrive at decisions. A very productive meeting was held with Mr. Benjamin, Ms.
Mason, Dr. Baker and Jackie Brawley. Notes from that meeting, which outline some
ideas, are attached. Mr. Benjamin does not believe any formal action needs to be
taken at this time, but he highlighted some specific portions of the notes from the
meeting. He noted that Federal Way School District is very advanced in policy
governance and they have a webpage devoted to policy governance “frequently asked
questions.” It may be a good idea to look at doing something similar on our website.
He suggested that when a school board member has an informal visit to a school that
5

▪

▪

6.0
6.1
6.1

the Communications Department be notified. He also asked that board members read
through the notes from the Sept. 26 meeting for future discussion.
At the Sept. 26, 2018 school board retreat, Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Diaz Hackler were
charged with investigating if the board should consider the development of an
Executive Limitations policy focused on equity. Mr. Benjamin and Ms. Diaz Hackler
shared that the timing appears to be right in this district and the community for the
board to consider adopting such a policy. They recommend that the committee
continue to investigate and recommend a stakeholder/community-based process for
developing a draft policy. WSSDA does not provide a model policy regarding equity,
as the equity picture in each community is different. Mr. Benjamin provided a sample
equity policy recently adopted by the Issaquah School Board and suggested that a
small committee meet with Dr. Baker and any other staff to discuss next steps. The
members of the board agreed that this process should move forward.
The most current draft regarding resolutions language for the school board handbook
was presented, and it will be added to the handbook.

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 7:21p.m.

Approved:

Kelly Bashaw, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ___________

6

