1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 14, 2018
OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
6 p.m. – Mar. 14, 2018 - 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham, Washington
Call to Order/Roll Call:
Ms. Bashaw called the meeting to order at 6 p.m. Present: Directors Kelly Bashaw
(President), Douglas Benjamin, Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason, Quenby Peterson,
Superintendent Greg Baker, and Ruth Rasmussen (recorder).
Audience:
 David Crosby – Mr. Crosby is the local spokesperson for Mothers Demand Action
for Whatcom County. He commended the district and the board for showing respect
for student rights during the recent student-led walkout. He voiced opposition to
arming teachers and referenced the upcoming March for our Lives – Bellingham
demonstration on Mar. 24, noting students have organized this event, which is taking
place locally and around the country.
 Katie Perkins and Nikhil Harle – Both are Sehome High School seniors. They
expressed strong opposition to arming of teachers and said they favored stronger gun
control laws.
 Liz Hjelmseth – Ms. Hjelmseth expressed thanks to Dr. Baker and the board for the
district’s response and messaging regarding student-led protests. She asked that the
board craft and implement a policy prohibiting the arming of teachers and other staff.
 Lisa Van Doren – Ms. Van Doren thanked the board for the district’s support of
students during the recent protests. She expressed strong opposition to arming
teachers and asked the board to implement a clear policy on this issue.
 Heather Korbmacher – Ms. Korbmacher encouraged the board to lead the way in
Whatcom County by taking an active stance in opposition to arming teachers and
staff.
 Kenzie Knapp – Ms. Knapp, a student at Sehome High school, said she represented
other Sehome students in voicing opposition to arming teachers. Citing the Omaha
Public School Board’s recent vote calling for stricter gun control and opposing
teachers carrying guns in schools, she asked that Bellingham’s school board members
consider implementing a similar measure.
 Exquisite Erika – A licensed clinical social worker and crisis responder, Exquisite
Erika made the following points:
o It is critical that adults honor the Bellingham Promise, particularly the core
belief that all children should be loved and the commitment to the
development of students and graduates who are healthy, active individuals.

1.4

2.0

2.1
2.2
2.3

o She has a strong interest in making sure adults hear the voices of black
students and those of African descent, many of whom, she said, are
marginalized and are not being served respectfully.
o School personnel need to recognize the importance of completing suicide
assessments when dealing with at-risk students.
o She asked the board to outline its goals and considerations in terms of ethnic
diversity and what the Bellingham Promise would look like going forward.
o She asked for the board’s reflections on violence and its impact on children.
 Stevana Burks – Ms. Burks said as a parent, she believes not every child benefits
from the core beliefs outlined in the Bellingham Promise; for example, the belief that
the whole child is important. She asked for more diversity training for educators and
asked how the board is addressing the core issue of race.
 Jon Shaughnessy – Mr. Shaughnessy is a long-time community organizer who is
active in the Poor People’s Campaign. He encouraged those present to support the
campaign during the St. Patrick’s Day Parade in Bellingham on Mar. 17.
 Ellen Clark – Ms. Clark expressed strong opposition to arming teachers and other
school staff.
 Kimberley Rissler – Ms. Rissler encouraged the board to provide more safety
education to students.
 Karin Hovdesven – Ms. Hovdesven asked that the board issue a clear statement to
the community that it will not pursue any action involving arming of teachers or staff.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report – Summary of Dr. Baker’s
comments:
 Student Walkout: Some students in our district participated today in the National
School Walkout to honor victims of the Feb. 14 Parkland, Florida, school shooting.
The walkout was a localized event in which students left their classrooms for 17
minutes but stayed on campus. Later this month, some of our students will travel to
Washington DC to participate in the Mar. 24 March for our Lives event.
CONSENT ITEMS
Ms. Peterson requested the following correction to Item 4.1 of the Feb. 28 draft meeting
minutes:
“SB 5964 RCW 42.30.205 - Training requires that public officials be trained regularly
every four years on public records, records management, and open public meetings
requirements. RCW 42.30.120 references personal liability in the form of a civil penalty
of $500 to $1,000 for violations of any provisions of Chapter 42.30. Attorney Lynette
Baisch of Porter, Foster Rorick LLP gave a presentation to the board on these topics and
responded to questions.”
Mr. Benjamin made a motion, seconded by Ms. Peterson, to approve the following
consent agenda items. Unanimous affirmative vote.
Approval of the revised minutes of the Feb. 28, 2018 regular meeting and the Mar.
6, 2018 school board visit.
Approval of Investments – February 2018
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – February 2018

2

2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
3.0
3.1

3.2

4.0
4.1
4.2

4.3
5.0
5.1

Resolution 6-18, Request to Transfer Funds from the Capital Projects Fund to the
General Fund
Authorization to Call for Bids – Bellingham School District Central Kitchen
Agreement for Services with Colin Apt/The Photic Zone
Whatcom Discovery Center Breakfast & Lunch Meal Agreement (#1718-069)
Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services Between Meridian
School District No. 505 and Bellingham School District No. 501 (#1718-150)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts
EL-9 Asset Maintenance and Protection
POLICY GOVERNANCE REVIEW
Ends 2.1 (part 3) – Student Competence: Steve Clarke, Assistant Superintendent,
Department of Teaching and Learning, and Brian Rick, Director of Research/Assessment,
presented this third and final report for Ends 2.1 and answered questions from the board.
Part 3 focuses on how Bellingham students are faring in terms of post-secondary
enrollment rates and how the district is preparing students for post-secondary educational
options. Questions from the board included the following:
 In future reports, in the chart showing percent of 2016 graduates enrolled in 2 and 4year institutions and taking pre-college courses: can we breakdown numbers further,
by individual high schools?
 In future reports, could we add statistics that include outcomes for those who have
completed dual credit courses while in high school?
Board Response to Monitoring – EL-3- Treatment and Communication with Public,
Parents and Students
At the Feb. 28, 2018 regular meeting, the consent agenda included a monitoring report on
EL-3. During discussion, the board agreed that the superintendent is in compliance with
the policy and no policy revisions are needed.
INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
School Board Directors’ Reports: The directors discussed their attendance at schoolrelated events and the recent WSSDA regional meeting (Mar. 1 in Mt. Vernon)
Discussion of Recent School Board Visit – Geneva Elementary School – General
discussion, including the following comments:
 The board appreciated the in-depth discussion of several school initiatives.
 It was helpful to listen to parents share their experiences.
 Evidence was clear that strong skill sets exist among teachers who direct students of
varying abilities.
 Use of the Seesaw program is impressive.
 Statistic: 98 percent of families feel safe at Geneva.
GP-7.2, 2017-18 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – General review
NEW BUSINESS
Policy Revision – The board reviewed a proposed revision to Policy 1420. This will be
an agenda item on Mar. 28.

3

5.2

School Safety: Following discussion, board members unanimously agreed that the
minutes will reflect the board’s opposition to arming teachers or other staff within our
district. Such a course of action has not been considered in the past and will not be
pursued by directors currently serving on our board.
Additionally, Mr. Benjamin made the following motion, seconded by Ms. Mason: In
view of public comments at the Feb. 28 meeting and the more extended robust discussion
at tonight’s meeting, the board will form a two-person committee, charged with the task
of drafting a student safety resolution, seeking stakeholder input as desired, and bring a
proposed resolution back to the board for consideration when completed. The committee
members would include Directors Doug Benjamin and Jenn Mason.
Unanimous affirmative vote.

5.3

April 23 Special Meeting: The board agreed to cancel this meeting.

6.0
6.1

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting – Ms. Diaz Hackler assessed the meeting, with an overall
rating of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment – 7:59 p.m.

6.2

Kelly Bashaw, School Board President
Attest:
_______________________________
Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved: ______________

4

