ATTACHMENT A
Feb. 7, 2018 Board Meeting Minutes

Policy Monitored: Ends 2.1, part 1, Student Competence
Date Report submitted: 1/10/18
Date of Board’s Monitoring Response: 2/7/18
The board has received and reviewed the superintendent’s monitoring report including the data set.
Following the board’s review and discussions with the superintendent and his representatives, the
board makes the following conclusions:
Ends Reports:
Executive Limitations Reports
1. The board finds that the superintendent:
1. The board finds that the superintendent:
a. has achieved the goals established in the
a. is in compliance.
policy.
b. is in compliance, except for items(s) noted.
c. is making reasonable progress toward
b. is making reasonable progress towards
compliance
achieving the goals. (1)
d. is not in compliance or is not making
c. is making reasonable progress towards
reasonable progress toward compliance.*
achieving the goals, but a greater degree of
e. cannot be determined
progress is expected in some areas. (3)
d. is not making reasonable progress in
achieving the goals established. (1)
e. cannot be determined
2. Please note commendable progress over the last year.
 Our district’s students tend to outperform our state average, and in fact outperform many of
the other states that administer the Smarter Balanced Assessment (SBA).
 The fact that our comparable districts are of higher socio-economic status is not necessarily a
reason for us to perform less favorably in comparison, but sets the bar high consistent with
policy -- “will exceed.”
 While we still have work to do in closing achievement gaps in key populations (as the report
notes), there is evidence of good progress.
 How we stand in the national growth comparisons is very encouraging - thanks for including
this new data.
 Grades 5, 6, 7 and 8 for ELA above the state average.
 Grades 4, 6, 7 and 8 for Math above state average.
 Students with IEPs in grades 3-5 cohort out-performed their peers in grades 6-8
 BSD outperformed all of our comparable districts in science in the non-low to low-income
category for grades 6-8.
 BSD outperformed all comparable districts in ELA category in the white and Hispanic
category for grades 6-8.
 Great to see progress in closing gaps between students with IEPs and those without.
 District excellence demonstrated through the five-year national growth comparison.
 The results of the Stanford study were impressive – showing six year’s of growth in five
year’s time.

ATTACHMENT A
Feb. 7, 2018 Board Meeting Minutes




Bellingham students scored above the average in Washington state on all dimensions of the
SBAC test, with the exception of third-grade English language arts and math.
High school biology and ELA test results show increased progress.
Showing progress in reducing achievement gaps for students who qualify for special
education services.

3. Please note areas for additional improvement.
 The noted decreases in year-to-year comparisons should be of concern and need to be
watched carefully and better understood. The report raises some good questions.
 The exception in outperforming state standards was third-grade English language arts and
math. As noted, it is difficult to determine the reason for the downward trend of the third
grade scores. Hopefully, we can learn more about this anomaly.
 ELA and math for all third grade below comparable districts but on par with the state average.
 ELA, math and science scores dropped for Hispanic students in grades 3-8.
 Comparable high-achieving districts performing at higher rate on many measures.
 Districts with higher-incomes are still outperforming BSD.
 Gap between Hispanic and non-Hispanic students overall higher than comparable districts and
state overall.
 It seems like more progress could be made with our Hispanic and ELL students.
 The board would like to see proficiency percentiles of Bellingham students closer to that of
high-performing comparables.
 We need to better understand and reverse the trend of decreasing test scores.
 Persisting achievement gaps show there is still significant work to be done in this area.
4. Comments on the report itself.
 As we have come to expect, the report is extremely well presented with a great narrative that
is just right in length and nice data sets.
 There seems to be issues with the data for ELL students. It is hard to determine trends.
 Downward trend for all students with IEPs.
 More resources needed for our Hispanic students.
 Does there need to be more preparation for our third graders to prepare to take the test online?
(How much time are they spending on the computer during the test-taking window and should
they have more days to test?)
 No HCL data included this year.
 Appreciate the deeper look into the third-grade data and the potential for results to be skewed
by the test itself.
 Putting testing in context in the report was important, noting that the district has not heavily
pushed test prep, which would have its own set of challenges. Good reminder.
 Hard to address growth with information embargoed, will be interesting to delve in.
 The board appreciates all the hard work that went into this report and the accompanying data
set.
 Comparison of test data to teacher report card marks is interesting.
 Five-year National Growth comparison data is helpful to see where Bellingham sits on a
national scale

ATTACHMENT A
Feb. 7, 2018 Board Meeting Minutes


The board looks forward to revisiting the continuous growth data when it is available.

5. Possible changes to the policy.
 Given that the formal assessments (e.g. SBA) used may not be a reliable measure of
achievement, a discussion of its use in E-2.1 might be appropriate.
 Consider removing Bellevue as a comparable district. In looking at Bellevue’s demographics
and especially their free/reduced numbers and population, they do not even come close to
BSD. If we know that poverty is the biggest predictor of success, it makes sense that Bellevue
will outperform BSD. If there is also a test prep component added in to what Bellevue does to
prepare students for SBA, then how will BSD ever come close or much less catch up?

