Wednesday, July 11, 2018
5:50 p.m. - Special Meeting/Public Hearing
The Board of Directors will hold a special meeting to conduct a public hearing to take public testimony,
both for and against, a proposed amendment to Resolution 14-13, which will allow bond proceeds to be
used to purchase land and construct new District Offices, or purchase land with an existing building and
undertake any desired improvements to serve as the District Offices. RCW 28A.530.020 requires a public
hearing prior to amending the list of eligible projects associated with a bond issue. This public hearing will
be followed by a regular board meeting, beginning at 6 p.m., during which the board will take action on
the proposed amendment.

1. Opening Items
Subject :

1.01 Meeting Date and Location

Meeting :

Jul 11, 2018 - 5:50 p.m. - Special Meeting/Public
Hearing

Type :

Information

Public Content
5:50 p.m., July 11, 2018 - District Office, 1306 Dupont St., Bellingham WA

1. Opening Items
Subject :

1.02 Call to Order/Roll Call

Meeting :

Jul 11, 2018 - 5:50 p.m. - Special Meeting/Public
Hearing

Type :

2. Public Hearing
Subject :

2.01 Public Hearing, Amend Resolution 14-13

Meeting :

Jul 11, 2018 - 5:50 p.m. - Special Meeting/Public
Hearing

Type :

Information, Discussion

Public Content
Meeting 5:50 p.m. July 11, 2018 - Special Meeting/Public Hearing
Category Public Hearing
Subject Public Hearing, Amend Resolution 14-13
Type Discussion

Staff Contact: Simone Sangster, Assistant Superintendent
Explanation of Issue:

On June 27, 2013, the board adopted Resolution 14-13, which, among other things, specified the eligible
capital improvements that could be implemented using proceeds from the 2013 bond issue. The purpose
of this evening's public hearing is to take public testimony, both for and against, a proposed amendment
to Resolution 14-13, which will allow bond proceeds to be used to purchase land and construct new
District Offices, or purchase land with an existing building and undertake any desired improvements to
serve as the District Offices.
The original 2013 bond resolution language which allowed bond proceeds to be used to renovate the
existing District Offices will be retained. The proposed amendment will allow for additional options to be
considered related to the District Offices project.
RCW 28A.530.020 requires a public hearing prior to amending the list of eligible projects associated with
a bond issue.
This public hearing will be followed by a regular board meeting, beginning at 6 p.m., during which the
board will take action on the proposed amendment.

3. Closing Items
Subject :

3.01 Adjournment

Meeting :

Jul 11, 2018 - 5:50 p.m. - Special Meeting/Public
Hearing

Type :

